  and  an  ellipti-spiral  in  a  resisting  me
dium.  Our  author,  aided  by  this  correction  of  his  error,  and  by
30   LIFE    OF    SIR    ISAAC    NEWTON.
the  discovery  that  a  projectile  would  move  in  an  elliptical  orbil
when  under  the  influence  of  a  force  varying  inversely  as  the
square  of  the  distance,  was  led  to  discover  "  the  theorem  bj
which  he  afterwards  examined  the  ellipsis ;"  and  to  demonstrate
the  celebrated  proposition  that  a  planet  acted  upon  by  an  attrac
tive  force  varying  inversely  as  the  squares  of  the  distances  will
describe  an  elliptical  orbit,  in  one  of  whose  foci  the  attractive
force  resides.
When  he  was  attending  a  meeting  of  the  Royal  Society,  in
June  1682,  the  conversation  fell  upon  the  subject  of  the  measure
ment  of  a  degree  of  the  meridian,  executed  by  M.  Picard,  a
French  Astronomer,  in  1679.  Newton  took  a  memorandum  oi
the  result  ;  and  afterward,  at  the  earliest  opportunity,  computed
from  it  the  diameter  of  the  earth  :  furnished  with  these  new  data,
he  resumed  his  calculation  of  1666.  As  he  proceeded  therein,
he  saw  that  his  early  expectations  were  now  likely  to  be  realized  ;
the  thick  rushing,  stupendous  results  overpowered  him  ;  he  be
came  unable  to  carry  on  the  process  of  calculation,  and  intrusted
its  completion  to  one  of  his  friends.  The  discoverer  had,  indeed,
grasped  the  master-fact.  The  law  of  falling  bodies  at  the  earth's
surface  was  at  length  identified  with  that  which  guided  the  moon
in  her  orbit.  And  so  his  GREAT  THOUGHT,  that  had  for  sixteen
years  loomed  up  in  dim,  gigantic  outline,  amid  the  first  dawn  of  a
plausible  hypothesis,  now  stood  forth,  radiant  and  not  less  grand,
in  the  mid-day  light  of  demonstrated  truth.
It  were  difficult,  nay  impossible  to  imagine,  even,  the  influence
of  a  result  like  this  upon  a  mind  like  Newton's.  It  was  as  if  the
keystone  had  been  fitted  to  the  glorious  arch  by  which  his  spirit
should  ascend  to  the  outskirts  of  infinite  space — spanning  the  immea
surable — weighing  the  imponderable — computing  the  incalculable
—mapping  out  the  marchings  of  the  planets,  and  the  far-wander
ings  of  the  comefs,  and  catching,  bring  back  to  earth  some  clearer
notes  of  that  higher  melody  which,  as  a  sounding  voice,  bears
perpetual  witness  to  the  design  and  omnipotence  of  a  creating
Deity.
Newton,  extending  the  law  thus  obtained,  composed  a  series
of  about  twelve  propositions  on  the  motion  of  the  primary  planets
LIFE    OF    SIR    ISAAC    NEWTON.   31
about  the  sun.  These  were  sent  to  London,  and  communicated
to  the  Royal  Society  about  the  end  of  1683.  At  or  near  this  pe
riod,  other  philosophers,  as  Sir  Christopher  Wren,  Dr.  Halley,
and  Dr.  Hooke,  were  engaged  in  investigating  the  same  subject ;
but  with  no  definite  or  satisfactory  results.  Dr.  Halley,  having
seen,  it  is  presumed,  our  author's  propositions,  went  in  August,
1684,  to  Cambridge  to  consult  with  him  upon  the  subject.
Newton  assured  him  that  he  had  brought  the  demonstration  to
perfection.  In  November,  Dr.  Halley  received  a  copy  of  the
work  ;  and,  in  the  following  month^  announced  .  it  to  the  Royal
Society,  with  the  author's  promise  to  have  it  entered  upon  their
Register.  Newton,  subsequently  reminded  by  the  Society  of  his
promise,  proceeded  in  the  diligent  preparation  of  the  work,  and.
though  suffering  an  interruption  of  six  weeks,  transmitted  the
manuscript  of  the  first  book  to  London  before  the  end  of  April.
The  work  was  entitled  PHILOSOPHI/E  NATURALIS  PRINCIPIA
MATHEMATICA,  dedicated  to  the  Royal  Society,  and  presented
thereto  on  the  28th  of  April,  1685-6.  The  highest  encomiums
were  passed  upon  it ;  and  the  council  resolved,  on  the  19th  of
May,  to  print  it  at  the  expense  of  the  Society,  and  under  the  di
rection  of  Dr.  Halley.  The  latter,  a  few  days  afterward,  com
municated  these  steps  to  Newton,  who,  in  a  reply,  dated  the  20th
of  June,  holds  the  following  language  : —  "  The  proof  you  sent  me
I  like  very  well.  I  designed  the  whole  to  consist  of  three  books  ;
the  second  was  finished  last  summer,  being  short,  and  only  wants
transcribing,  and  drawing  the  cuts  fairly.  Some  new  propositions
I  have  since  thought  on,  which  I  can  as  well  let  alone.  The
third  wants  the  theory  of  comets.  In  autumn  last,  I  spent  two
months  in  calculation  to  no  purpose  for  want  of  a  good  method,
which  made  me  afterward  return  to  the  first  book,  and  enlarge  it
with  diverse  propositions,  some*  relating  to  comets,  others  to  other
things  found  ouf  last  winter.  The  third  I  now  design  to  sup
press.  Philosophy  is  such  an  impertinently  litigious  lady,  that  a
man  had  as  good  be  engaged  in  l«iw-suits  as  have  to  do  with  her.
I  found  it  so  formerly,  and  now  I  can  no  sooner  come  near  her
again,  but  she  gives  me  warning.  The  first  two  books  without
the  third  will  not  so  well  bear  the  title  of  P/iilosophicc  Naturalis
3
32   LIFE    OF    SIR    ISAAC    NEWTON.
Principia  Mathematicia  ;  and  thereupon  I  had  altered  it  to  this,
De  Motu  Corporum  Libri  duo.  But  after  second  thought  I  re
tain  the  former  title.  It  will  help  the  sale  of  the  book,  which  I
ought  not  to  diminish  now  'tis  yours."
This  "  warning"  arose  from  some  pretensions  put  forth  by  Dr.
Hooke.  And  though  Newton  gave  a  minute  and  positive  refuta
tions  of  such  claims,  yet,  to  reconcile  all  differences,  he  gener
ously  added  to  Prop.  IV.  Cor.  6,  Book  I,  a  Scholium,  in  which
Wren,  Hooke  and  Halley  are  acknowledged  to  have  indepen
dently  deduced  the  law  of  gravity  from  the  second  law  of
Kepler.
The  suppression  of  the  third  book  Dr.  Halley  could  not  endure
to  see.  "  I  must  again  beg  you"  says  he,  "  not  to  let  your  re
sentments  run  so  high  as  to  deprive  us  of  your  third  book,  where
in  your  applications  of  your  mathematical  doctrine  to  the  theory
of  comets,  and  several  curious  experiments,  which,  as  I  guess  by
what  you  write  ought  to  compose  it,  will  undoubtedly  render  it
acceptable  to  those  who  will  call  themselves  philosophers  without
mathematics,  which  are  much  the  greater  number."  To  these
solicitations  Newton  yielded.  There  were  no  "resentments,"  how
ever,  as  we  conceive,  in  his  "  design  to  suppress."  He  sought
peace  ;  for  he  loved  and  valued  it  above  all  applause.  But,  in
spite  of  his  efforts  for  tranquillity's  sake,  his  course  of  discovery
was  all  along  molested  by  ignorance  or  presumptuous  rivalry.
The  publication  of  the  great  work  now  went  rapidly  forwards,
The  second  book  was  sent  to  the  Society,  and  presented  on  the
2d  March  ;  the  third,  on  the  6th  April ;  and  the  whole  was  com
pleted  and  published  in  the  month  of  May,  1686-7.  In  the  sec
ond  Lemma  of  the  second  book,  the  fundamental  principle  of  his
fiuxionary  calculus  was,  for  the  first  time,  given  to  the  world  ;  but
its  algorithm  or  notation  did  not  appear  till  published  in  the
second  volume  nf  Dr.  Wallis's  works,  in  1693.
And  thus  was  ushered  into  existence  The  PRINCIPIA — a  work
to  which  pre-eminence  above  all  the  productions  of  the  human
intellect  has  been  awarded — a  work  that  must  be  esteemed  of
priceless  worth  so  long  as  Science  has  a  votary,  or  a  single  wor
shipper  be  left  to  kneel  at  the  altar  of  Truth.
LIFE    OF    SIR    ISAAC    NEWTON.   33
The  entire  work  bears  the  general  title  of  THE  MATHEMATICAL
PRINCIPLES  OF  NATURAL  PHILOSOPHY.  It  consists  of  three  books:
the  first  two,  entitled,  OF  THE  MOTION  OF  BODIES,  are  occupied
with  the  laws  and  conditions  of  motions  and  forces,  and  are  illus
trated  with  many  scholia  treating  of  some  of  the  most  general
and  best  established  points  in  philosophy,  such  as  the  density  and
resistance  of  bodies,  spaces  void  of  matter,  and  the  motion  of
sound  and  light.  From  these  principles,  there  is  deduced,  in  the
third  book,  drawn  up  in  as  popular  a  style  as  possible  and  entitled,
OF  THE  SYSTEM  OF  THE  WORLD,  the  constitution  of  the  system  of
i he  world.  In  regard  to  this  book,  the  author  say^  — "  I  had,  indeed,
composed  the  third  Book  in  a  popular  method,  that  it  might  be  read
by  many  ;  but  afterwards,  considering  that  such  as  had  not  suf-
ficently  entered  into  the  principles  could  not  easily  discover  the
strength  of  the  consequences,  nor  lay  aside  the  prejudices  to  which
they  had  been  many  years  accustomed,  therefore,  to  prevent  dis
putes  which  might  be  raised  upon  such  accounts,  I  chose  to  reduce
the  substance  of  this  Book  into  the  form  of  Propositions  (in  the
mathematical  way),  which  should  be  read  by  those  only  who  had
first  made  themselves  masters  of  the  principles  established  in  the
preceding  Books  :  not  that  I  would  advise  any  one  to  the  previous
study  of  every  Proposition  of  those  Books." —  "It  is  enough  it
one  carefully  reads  the  Definitions,  the  Laws  of  Motion,  and  the
three  first  Sections  of  the  first  Book.  He  may  then  pass  on  to
this  Book,  and  consult  such  of  the  remaining  Propositions  of  the
first  two  Books,  as  the  references  in  this,  and  his  occasions  shall  re
quire."  So  that  "  The  System  of  the  World"  is  composed  both
"  in  a  popular  method,"  and  in  the  form  of  mathematical  Propo
sitions.
The  principle  of  Universal  Gravi'  ition,  namely,  that  every
particle  of  matter  is  attracted  by,  or  gravitates  to,  every  other
particle  of  matter,  icith  a  force  inversely  proportional  to  the
squares  of  their  distances — is  the  discovery  w?  ich  characterizes
The  PRINCIPIA.  This  principle  the  author  deduced  from  the  mo
tion  of  the  moon,  and  the  three  laws  of  Kepler — laws,  which
Newton,  in  turn,  by  his  greater  law,  demonstrated  to  be  true.
From  the  first  law  of  Kepler,  namely,  the   proportionality  of
LIFE    OF    SIR    ISAAC    NEWTON.
the  areas  to  t\ie  times  of  their  description,  our  author  inferred
that  the  force  which  retained  the  planet  in  its  orbit  was  always
directed  to  the  sun  ;  and  from  the  second,  namely,  that  every
planet  moves  in  an  ellipse  with  the  sun  in  one  of  its  foci,  he  drew
the  more  general  inference  that  the  force  by  which  the  planet
moves  round  that  focus  varies  inversely  as  the  square  of  its  dis
tance  therefrom  :  and  he  demonstrated  that  a  planet  acted  upon
by  such  a  force  could  not  move  in  any  other  curve  than  a  conic
section  ;  showing  when  the  moving  body  would  describe  a  circu
lar,  an  elliptical,  a  parabolic,  or  hyperbolic  orbit.  He  demon
strated,  too,  that  this  force,  or  attracting,  gravitating  power  re
sided  in  every,  the  least  particle  ;  but  that,  in  spherical  masses,  it
operated  as  if  confined  to  their  centres  ;  so  that,  one  sphere  or
body  will  act  upon  another  sphere  or  body,  with  a  force  directly
proportional  to  the  quantity  of  matter,  and  inversely  as  the  square
of  the  distance  between  their  centres;  and  that  their  velocities  of
mutual  approach  will  be  in  the  inverse  ratio  of  their  quantities  o*'
matter.  Thus  he  grandly  outlined  the  Universal  Law.  Verify
ing  its  truth  by  the  motions  of  terrestrial  bodies,  then  by  those  of
the  moon  and  other  secondary  orbs,  he  finally  embraced,  in  one
mighty  generalization,  the  entire  Solar  System —  all  the  move
ments  of  all  its  bodies — planets,  satellites  and  comets — explain
ing  and  harmonizing  the  many  diverse  and  theretofore  inexplica
ble  phenomena.
Guided  by  the  genius  of  Newton,  we  see  sphere  bound  to
sphere,  body  to  body,  particle  to  particle,  atom  to  mass,  the  min
utest  part  to  the  stupendous  whole — each  to  each,  each  to  all,
and  all  to  each — in  the  mysterious  bonds  of  a  ceaseless,  recipro
cal  influence.  An  influence  whose  workings  are  shown  to  be
alike  present  in  the  globular  dew-drop,  or  oblate-spheroidal  earth  ;
in  the  falling  shower,  or  vast  heaving  ocean  tides ;  in  the  flying
thistle-down,  or  fixed,  ponderous  rock  ;  in  the  swinging  pendulum,
or  time-measuring  sun  ;  in  the  varying  and  unequal  moon,  or
earth's  slowly  retrograding  poles  ;  in  the  uncertain  meteor,  or
oiazing  comet  wheeling  swiftly  away  on  its  remote,  yet  determined
round.  An  influence,  in  fine,  that  may  link  system  to  system
through  all  the  star-glowing  firmament  ;  then  firmament  to  iirma-
LIFE    OF    SIR    ISAAC    NEWTON.   35
merit  ;  aye,  firmament  to  firmament,  again  and  again,  till,  con
verging  home,  it  may  be,  to  some  ineffable  centre,  where  more
presently  dwells  He  who  inhabiteth  immensity,  and  where  infini
tudes  meet  and  eternities  have  their  condux,  and  where  around
move,  in  softest,  swiftest  measure,  all  the  countless  hosts  that
crowd  heaven's  fathomless  deeps.
And  yet  Newton,  amid  the  loveliness  and  magnitude  of  Om
nipotence,  lost  not  sight  of  the  Almighty  One.  A  secondary,
however  universal,  was  not  taken  for  the  First  Cause.  An  im
pressed  force,  however  diffused  and  powerful,  assumed  not  the
functions  of  the  creating,  giving  Energy.  Material  beauties,
splendours,  and  sublimities,  however  rich  in  glory,  and  endless  in
extent,  concealed  not  the  attributes  of  an  intelligent  Supreme.
From  the  depths  of  his  own  soul,  through  reason  and  the  WORD,
he  had  risen,  a  priori,  to  God  :  from  the  heights  of  Omnipotence,
through  the  design  and  law  of  the  builded  universe,  he  proved  </
posteriori,  a  Deity.  "  I  had,"  says  he,  "  an  eye  upon  such  prin
ciples  as  might  work,  with  considering  men,  for  the  belief  of  a
Deity,"  in  writing  the  PRINCIPIA  ;  at  the  conclusion  whereof,  he
teaches  that —  "  this  most  beautiful  system  of  the  sun,  planets  and
comets,  could  only  proceed  from  the  counsel  and  dominion  of  an
intelligent  and  powerful  Being.  And  if  the  fixed  stars  are  the
centres  of  other  like  systems,  these,  being  forme  1  by  the  like
wise  counsels,  must  be  all  subject  to  the  dominion  of  One ;  especially
since  the  light  of  the  fixed  stars  is  of  the  same  nature  with  the
light  of  the  sun,  and  from  every  system  light  passes  into  all  other
systems  :  and  lest  the  systems  of  the  fixed  stars  should,  by  their
gravity,  fall  on  each  other  mutually,  he  hath  placed  those  systems
at  immense  distances  one  from  another.
"  This  Being  governs  all  things,  not  as  the  soul  of  the  world,
but  as  Lord  over  all ;  and  on  account  of  his  dominion  he  is  wont,
to  be  called  Lord  God  Travrowparwp  or  Universal  Ruler  ;  for  God
is  a  relative  word,  and  has  a  respect  to  servants  ;  and  Deity  is
the  dominion  of  God,  not  over  his  own  body,  as  those  imagine
who  fancy  God  to  be  the  soul  of  the  world,  but  over  servants.
The  Supreme  God  is  a  Being  eternal,  infinite,  absolutely  perfect ;
but  a  being,  however  perfect,  without  dominion,  cannot  be  said  to
36   LIFE    OF    SIR    ISAAC    NEWTON.
be  Lord  God  ;  for  we  say,  my  God,  your  God,  the  God  of  Israel
the  God  of  Gods,  and  Lord  of  Lords  ;  but  we  do  not  say,  my
Eternal,  your  Eternal,  the  Eternal  of  Israel,  the  Eternal  of  Gods  :
we  do  not  say  my  Infinite,  or  my  Perfect  :  these  are  titles  which
have  no  respect  to  servants.  The  word  God  usually  signifies
Lord  ;  but  every  Lord  is  not  God.  It  is  the  dominion  of  a  spir
itual  Being  which  constitutes  a  God  ;  a  true,  supreme,  or  imagi
nary  dominion  makes  a  true,  supreme,  or  imaginary  God.  And
from  his  true  dominion  it  follows  that  the  true  God  is  a  living,
intelligent  and  powerful  Being ;  and  from  his  other  perfections,
that  he  is  supreme  or  most  perfect.  He  is  eternal  and  in
finite,  omnipotent  and  omniscient  ;  that  is,  his  duration  reaches
from  eternity  to  eternity  ;  his  presence  from  infinity  to  infinity ;
he  governs  all  things  and  knows  all  things,  that  are  or  can  be
done.  He  is  not  eternity  or  infinity,  but  eternal  and  infinite  ;
he  is  not  duration  and  space,  but  he  endures  and  is  present.
He  endures  forever  and  is  everywhere  present  ;  and  by  existing
always  and  everywhere,  he  constitutes  duration  and  space.  Since
every  particle  of  space  is  always,  and  every  indivisible  moment
of  duration  is  everywhere,  certainly  the  Maker  and  Lord  of  things
cannot  be  never  and  nowhere.  Every  soul  that  has  perception
is,  though  in  different  times  and  different  organs  of  sense  and  mo
tion,  still  the  same  indivisible  person.  There  are  given  succes
sive  parts  in  duration,  co-existent  parts  in  space,  but  neither  the
one  nor  the  other  in  the  person  of  a  man,  or  his  thinking
principle  ;  and  much  less  can  they  be  found  in  the  thinking  sub
stance  of  God.  Every  man.  so  far  as  he  is  a  thing  that  has  j:er-
ceptiori,  is  one  and  the  same  man  during  his  whole  life,  in  all  and
each  of  his  organs  of  sense.  God  is  one  and  the  same  God,  al
ways  and  everywhere.  He  is  omnipresent,  not  virtually  only,
but  also  substantially  ;  for  virtue  cannot  subsist  without  sub
stance.  In  him  are  all  things  contained  and  moved  ;  yet  neither
affects  the  other  ;  God  suffers  nothing  from  the  motion  of  bodies  ;
bodies  find  no  resistance  from  the  omnipresence  of  God.  It  is
allowed  by  all  that  the  Supreme  God  exists  necessarily  ;  and  by
the  same  necessity  he  exists  always  and  everywhere.  Whence
also  he  is  all  similar,  all  eye,  all  ear,  all  brain,  all  arm,  all  powei
LIFE    CF    SIR    ISAAC    NEWTON.   37
to  perceive,  to  understand,  and  to  act  ;  but  in  a  manner  not  at  all
human,  in  a  manner  not  at  all  corporeal,  in  a  manner  utterly  un
known  to  us.  As  a  blind  man  has  no  idea  of  colours,  so  have  we
no  idea  of  the  manner  by  which  the  all-wise  God  perceives  and
understands  all  things.  He  is  utterly  void  of  all  body,  and  bodily
figure,  and  can  therefore  neither  be  seen,  nor  heard,  nor  touched  ;
nor  ought  he  to  be  worshipped  under  the  representation  of  any
corporeal  thing.  We  have  ideas  of  his  attributes,  but  what  the
real  substance  of  anything  is  we  know  not.  In  bodies  we  see
only  their  figures  and  colours,  we  hear  only  the  sounds,  we  touch
only  their  outward  surfaces,  we  smell  only  the  smells,  and  taste
only  the  savours  ;  but  their  inward  substances  are  not  to  be  known,
either  by  our  senses,  or  by  any  reflex  act  of  our  minds  :  much
less,  then,  have  we  any  idea  of  the  substance  of  God.  We  know
him  only  by  his  most  wise  and  excellent  contrivances  of  things,
and  final  causes  ;  we  admire  him  for  his  perfections  ;  but  we  rev
erence  and  adore  him  on  account  of  his  dominion  ;  for  we  adore
him  as  his  servants  ;  and  a  god  without  dominion,  providence,  and
final  causes,  is  nothing  else  but  Fate  and  Nature.  Blind  meta
physical  necessity,  which  is  certainly  the  same  always  and  every
where,  could  produce  no  variety  of  things.  All  that  diversity  of
natural  things  which  we  find  suited  to  different  times  and  places
could  arise  from  nothing  but  the  ideas  and  will  of  a  Being  neces
sarily  existing."
Thus,  the  diligent  student  of  science,  the  earnest  seeker  of
truth,  led,  as  through  the  courts  of  a  sacred  Temple,  wherein,  at
each  step,  new  wonders  meet  the  eye,  till,  as  a  crowning  grace,
they  stand  before  a  Holy  of  Holies,  and  learn  that  all  science  and
all  truth  are  one  which  hath  its  beginning  and  its  end  in  the
knowledge  of  Him  whose  glory  the  heavens  declare,  and  whose
handiwork  the  firmament  showeth  forth.
The  introduction  of  the  pure  and  lofty  doctrines  of  the  PRIN-
CIPIA  was  perseveringly  resisted.  Descartes, with  his  system  of
vortices,  had  sown  plausibly  to  the  imagination,  and  error  had
struck  down  deeply,  and  shot  up  luxuriantly,  not  only  in  the
popular,  but  in  the  scientific  mind.  Besides  the  idea —  in  itself  so
simple  and  so  grand — that  the  great  masses  of  the  planets  were
38   LIFE    OF    SIR    ISAAC    NEWTON.
suspended  in  empty  space,  and  retained  in  their  orbits  by  an  in
visible  influence  residing  in  the  sun — was  to  the  ignorant  a  thing
inconceivable,  and  to  the  learned  a  revival  of  the  occult  qualities
of  the  ancient  physics.  This  remark  applies  particularly  to  the
continent.  Leibnitz  misapprehended  ;  Huygens  in  part  rejected  ;
John  Bernouilli  opposed  ;  and  Fontenelle  never  received  the  doc
trines  of  the  PRINCIPIA.  So  that,  the  saying  of  Voltaire  is  prob
ably  true,  that  though  Newton  survived  the  publication  of  his
great  work  more  than  forty  years,  yet,  at  the  time  of  his  death,
lie  had  not  above  twenty  followers  out  of  England.
But  in  England,  the  reception  of  our  author's  philosophy  was
rapid  and  triumphant.  His  own  labours,  while  Lucasian  Pro
fessor  ;  those  of  his  successors  in  that  Chair — Whiston  and
Saunderson  ;  those  of  Dr.  Samuel  Clarke,  Dr.  Laughton,  Roger
Cotes,  and  Dr.  Bentley  ;  the  experimental  lectures  of  Dr.  Keill
and  Desaguliers  ;  the  early  and  powerful  exertions  of  David
Gregory  at  Edinburgh,  and  of  his  brother  James  Gregory  at  St.
Andrew's,  tended  to  diffuse  widely  in  England  and  Scotland  a
knowledge  of,  and  taste  for  the  truths  of  the  PRINCIPIA.  Indeed,
its  mathematical  doctrines  constituted,  from  the  first,  a  regular
part  of  academical  instruction  ;  while  its  physical  truths,  given  to
the  public  in  popular  lectures,  illustrated  by  experiments,  had,
before  the  lapse  of  twenty  )  (  ar.s,  become  familiar  to,  and  adopted
by  the  general  mind.  Pemberton's  popular  "  View  of  Sir  Isaac
Newton's  Philosophy"  was  published,  in  1728  ;  and  the  year  after
ward,  an  English  translation  of  the  PRINCIPIA,  and  System  of  the
World,  by  Andrew  Motte.  And  since  that  period,  the  labours  of
Le  Seur  and  Jacquier,  of  Thorpe,  of  Jebb,  of  Wright  and  others
have  greatly  contributed  to  display  the  most  hidden  treasures  of
the  PRINCIPIA.
About  the  time  of  the  publication  of  the  Principia,  James  II.,
bent  on  re-establishing  the  Romish  Faith,  had,  among  other  ille
gal  acts,  ordered  by  mandamus,  the  University  of  Cambridge  to
confer  the  degree  of  Master  of  Arts  upon  an  ignorant  monk.
Obedience  to  this  mandate  was  resolutely  refused.  Newton  was
one  of  the  nine  delegates  chosen  to  defend  the  independence  of
the  University.  They  appeared  before  the  High  Court  ; — and
LIFE    OF    SIR    ISAAC    NEWTON.   39
successfully  :  the  king  abandoned  his  design.  The  prominent
part  which  our  author  took  in  these  proceedings,  and  his  eminence
in  the  scientific  world,  induced  his  proposal  as  one  of  the  parlia
mentary  representatives  of  the  University.  He  was  elected,  in
1688,  and  sat  in  the  Convention  Parliament  till  its  dissolution.
After  the  first  year,  however,  he  seems  to  have  given  little  or  no
attention  to  his  parliamentary  duties,  being  seldom  absent  from
the  University  till  his  appointment  in  the  Mint,  in  1695.
Newton  began  his  theological  researches  sometime  previous  to
1691  ;  in  the  prime  of  his  years,  and  in  the  matured  vigour  of
his  intellectual  powers.  From  his  youth,  as  we  have  seen,  he
had  devoted  himself  with  an  activity  the  most  unceasing,  and  an
energy  almost  superhuman  to  the  discovery  of  physical  truth  ; —
giving  to  Philosophy  a  new  foundation,  and  to  Science  a  new
temple.  To  pass  on,  then,  from  the  consideration  of  the  material,
more  directly  to  that  of  the  spiritual,  was  a  natural,  nay,  with  so
large  and  devout  a  soul,  a  necessary  advance.  The  Bible  was  to
him  of  inestimable  worth.  In  the  elastic  freedom,  which  a  pure
and  unswerving  faith  in  Him  of  Nazareth  gives,  his  mighty  facul
ties  enjoyed  the  only  completest  scope  for  development.  His
original  endowment,  however  great,  combined  with  a  studious
application,  however  profound,  would  never,  without  this  libera
tion  from  the  dominion  of  passion  and  sense,  have  enabled  him  to
attain  to  that  wondrous  concentration  and  grasp  of  intellect,  for
which  Fame  has  as  yet  assigned  him  no  equal.  Gratefully  he
owned,  therefore,  the'same  Author  in  the  Book  of  Nature  and  the
Book  of  Revelation.  These  were  to  him  as  drops  of  the  same
unfathomable  ocean  ; — as  outrayings  of  the  same  inner  splendour  ;
— as  tones  of  the  same  ineffable  voice  ; — as  segments  of  the  same
infinite  curve.  "With  great  joy  he  had  found  himself  enabled  to
proclaim,  as  an  interpreter,  from  the  hieroglyphs  of  Creation,  the
existence  of  a  God  :  and  now,  with  greater  joy,  and  in  the  fulness
of  his  knowledge,  and  in  the  fulness  of  his  strength,  he  laboured
to  make  clear,  from  the  utterances  of  the  inspired  Word,  the  far
mightier  confirmations  of  a  Supreme  Good,  in  all  its  glorious
amplitude  of  Being  and  of  Attribute  ;  and  to  bring  the  infallible
workings  thereof  plainly  home  to  the  understandings  and  the
40   LIFE    OF    SIR    ISAAC    NEWTON.
•affections  of  his  fellow-men  ;  and  finally  to  add  the  weight  of  his
own  testimony  in  favour  of  that  Religion,  whose  truth  is  now.  in
deed,  "  girded  with  the  iron  and  the  rock  of  a  ponderous  and  co
lossal  demonstration."
His  work,  entitled,  OBSERVATIONS  UPON  THE  PROPHECIES  OF
HOLY  WRIT,  PARTICULARLY  THE  PROPHECIES  OF  DANIEL  AND  THE
APOCALYPSE  OF  ST.  JOHN,  first  published  in  London,  in  1733  4to.
consists  of  two  parts  :  the  one  devoted  to  the  Prophecies  oi
Daniel,  and  the  other  to  the  Apocalypse  of  St.  John.  In  the  first
part,  he  treats  concerning  the  compilers  of  the  books  of  the  Old
Testament  ; — of  the  prophetic  language  ; — of  the  vision  of  the
four  beasts  ; — of  the  kingdoms  represented  by  the  feet  of  the
image  composed  of  iron  and  clay  ; — of  the  ten  kingdoms  repre
sented  by  the  ten  horns  of  the  beast  ; — of  the  eleventh  horn  of
Daniel's  fourth  beast  ;  of  the  power  which  should  change  times
and  laws  ;— of  the  kingdoms  represented  in  Daniel  by  the  ram
and  he-goat  ; — of  the  prophecy  of  the  seventy  weeks  ; — of  the
times  of  the  birth  and  passion  of  Christ  ; —  of  the  prophecy  of  the
Scripture  of  Truth  ; —  of  the  king  who  doeth  according  to  his  will,
and  magnified  himself  above  every  god,  and  honoured  Mahuzzims,
and  regarded  not  the  desire  of  women  ; — of  the  Mahuzzim,  hon
oured  by  the  king  who  doeth  according  to  his  will.  In  the  sec
ond  part,  he  treats  of  the  time  when  the  Apocalypse  was  written  ,
of  the  scene  of  the  vision,  and  the  relation  which  the  Apocalypse
has  to  the  book  of  the  law  of  Moses,  and  to  the  worship  of  God
in  the  temple  ; — of  the  relation  which  the  Apocalypse  has  to  the
prophecies  of  Daniel,  and  of  the  subject  of  the  prophecy  itself
Newton  regards  the  prophecies  as  given,  not  for  the  gratification
of  man's  curiosity,  by  enabling  him  to  foreknow  ;  but  for  his  con
viction  that  the  world  is  governed  by  Providence,  by  witnessing
their  fulfilment.  Enough  of  prophecy,  he  thinks,  has  already
been  fulfilled  to  afford  the  diligent  seeker  abundant  evidence  of
God's  providence.  The  whole  work  is  marked  by  profound
erudition,  sagacity  and  argument.
And  not  less  learning,  penetration  and  masterly  reasoning  are
conspicuous  in  his  HISTORICAL  ACCOUNT  OF  Two  NOTABLE
CORRUPTIONS  OF  SCRIPTURES  IN  A  LETTER  TO  A  FRIEND.  This
LIFE    OF    SIR    ISAAC    NEWTON.   41
Treatise,  first  accurately  published  in  Dr.  Horsley's  edition  of  his
works,  relates  to  two  texts  :  the  one,  1  Epistle  of  St.  John  v.  7 ;
the  other,  1  Epistle  of  St.  Paul  to  Timothy  iii.  16.  As  this
work  had  the  effect  to  deprive  the  advocates  of  the  doctrine  of
the  Trinity  of  two  leading  texts,  Newton  has  been  looked  upon
as  an  Arian  ;  but  there  is  absolutely  nothing  in  his  writings  to
warrant  such  a  conclusion.
His  regaining  theological  works  consist  of  the  LEXICON  PRO-
PHETICUM,  which  was  left  incomplete  ;  a  Latin  Dissertation  on
the  sacred  cubit  of  the  Jews,  which  was  translated  into  English,
and  published,  in  1737.  among  the  Miscellaneous  Works  of  John
Greaves  ;  and  FOUR  LETTERS  addressed  to  Dr.  Bentlty,  contain
ing  some  arguments  in  proof  of  a  Deity.  These  Letters  were
dated  respectively  :  10th  December,  1692  ;  17th  January,  1693  ;
25th  February,  1693;  and  llth  February,  1693— the  fourth
bearing  an  earlier  date  than  the  third.  The  best  faculties  and
the  profoundest  acquirements  of  our  author  are  convincingly
manifest  in  these  lucid  and  powerful  compositions.  They  were
published  in  1756,  and  reviewed  by  Dr.  Samuel  Johnson.
Newton's  religious  writings  are  distinguished  by  their  absolute
freedom  from  prejudice.  Everywhere,  throughout  them,  there
glows  the  genuine  nobleness  of  soul.  To  his  whole  life,  indeed,
we  may  here  fitly  extend  the  same  observation.  He  was  most
richly  imbued  with  the  very  spirit  of  the  Scriptures  which  he  so
delighted  to  study  and  to  meditate  upon.  His  was  a  piety,  so
fervent,  so  sincere  and  practical,  that  it  rose  up  like  a  holy  incense
from  every  thought  and  act.  His  a  benevolence  that  not  only
willed,  but  endeavoured  the  best  for  all.  His  a  philanthropy
that  held  in  the  embracings  of  its  love  every  brother-man.
His  a  toleration  of  the  largest  and  the  truest  ;  condemning  per
secution  in  every,  even  its  mildest  form  ;  and  kindly  encouraging
each  striving  after  excellence  : —  .1  toleration  that  came  not  of
indifference — for  the  immoral  and  the  impious  met  with  their
quick  rebuke — but  a  toleration  that  came  of  the  wise  humbleness
and  the  Christian  charity,  which  see,  in  the  nothingness  of  self
and  the  almightiness  of  TRUTH,  no  praise  for  the  ablest,  and  no
blame  for  th^  feeblest  in  their  strugglings  upward  to  light  and  life.
42   LIFE    OF    SIR    ISAAC    NEWTON,
Tn  the  winter  of  1691-2,  on  returning  from  chapel,  one  morn
ing,  Newton  foima  tnat  a  favourite  little  dog,  called  Diamond,
had  overturned  a  lighted  taper  on  his  desk,  and  that  several  pa
pers  containing  the  results  of  certain  optical  experiments,  were
nearly  consumed.  His  only  excl

---

  an  invention  the  most  exuberant.  But  in  him  there
was  a  conjunction  of  influences  as  extraordinary  as  fortunate.
Study,  unbroken,  persevering  and  profound  carried  on  its  inform
ing  and  disciplining  work  upon  a  genius,  natively  the  greatest,
and  rendered  freest  in  its  movements,  and  clearest  in  its  vision,
through  the  untrammelling  and  enlig}  tenirig  power  of  religion.
And,  in  this  happy  concurrence,  are  to  be  sought  the  elements  of
those  amazing  abilities,  which,  grasping,  with  equal  facility,  the
18   LIFE    OF    SIR    ISAAC    NEWTON.
minute  and  the  stupendous,  brought  these  successively  to  light,
and  caused  science  to  make  them  her  own.
In  1667,  Newton  was  made  a  Junior  Fellow  ;  and,  in  the  year
following,  he  took  his  degree  of  Master  of  Arts,  and  was  appoint
ed  to  a  Senior  Fellowship.
On  his  return  to  Cambridge,  in  1668,  he  resumed  his  optical
labours.  Having  thought  of  a  delicate  method  of  polishing  metal,
he  proceeded  to  the  construction  of  his  newly  projected  reflect
ing  telescope  ;  a  small  specimen  of  which  he  actually  made  with
his  own  hands,  It  was  six  inches  long  ;  and  magnified  about
forty  times  ; — a  power  greater  than  a  refracting  instrument  of  six
feet  tube  could  exert  with  distinctness.  Jupiter,  with  his  four
satellites,  and  the  horns,  or  moon-like  phases  of  Venus  were
plainly  visible  through  it.  THIS  WAS  THE  FIRST  REFLECTING
TELESCOPE     EVER     EXECUTED     AND     DIRECTED     TO     THE     HEAVENS.
He  gave  an  account  of  it,  in  a  letter  to  a  friend,  dated  February  23d,
1668-9 — a  letter  which  is  also  remarkable  for  containing  the  firs'
allusion  to  his  discoveries  "  concerning  the  nature  of  light."  En
couraged  by  the  success  of  his  first  experiment,  he  again  executed
with  his  own  hands,  not  long  afterward,  a  second  and  superior
instrument  of  the  same  kind.  The  existence  of  this  having  come
to  the  knowledge  of  the  Royal  Society  of  London,  in  1671,  they
requested  it  of  Newton  for  examination.  He  accordingly  sent  it
to  them,  It  excited  great  admiration;  it  was  shown  to  the  king*
a  drawing  and  description  of  it  was  sent  to  Paris  ;  and  the  tele-
scope  itself  was  carefully  preserved  in  the  Library  of  the  Society.
Newton  lived  to  see  his  invention  in  public  use,  and  of  eminent
service  in  the  cause  of  science.
In  the  spring  of  1669,  he  wrote  to  his  friend  Francis  Aston,
Esq.,  then  about  setting  out  on  his  travels,  a  letter  of  advice  and
directions,  it  was  dated  May  18th,  and  is  interesting  as  exhibit
ing  some  of  the  prominent  features  in  Newton's  character.
Thus  : —
"  Since  in  your  letter  you  give  me  so  much  liberty  of  spending
my  judgment  about  what  may  be  to  your  advantage  in  travelling,
1  shall  do  it  more  freely  than  perhaps  otherwise  would  have  been
decent,  Fir,ct,  then,  I  will  lay  down  some  general  rules,  most  of
LIFE    OF    SIR    ISAAC    NEWTON.   19
which,  I  bolieA  e,  you  have  considered  already  ;  but  if  any  of
them  be  new  to  you,  they  may  excuse  the  rest  ;  if  none  at  all,
yet  is  my  punishment  more  in  writing  than  yours  in  reading.
"When  you  come  into  any  fresh  company.  1.  Observe  their
humours.  2.  Suit  your  own  carriage  thereto,  by  which  insinua
tion  you  will  make  their  converse  more  free  and  open.  3.  Let
your  discourse  be  more  in  queries  and  doubtings  than  peremptory
assertions  or  disputings,  it  being  the  design  of  travellers  to  learn,
not  to  teach.  Besides,  it  will  persuade  your  acquaintance  that
you  have  the  greater  esteem  of  them,  and  so  make  them  more
ready  to  communicate  what  they  know  to  you  ;  whereas  nothing
sooner  occasions  disrespect  and  quarrels  than  peremptoriness.
You  will  find  little  or  no  advantage  in  seeming  wiser  or  much
more  ignorant  than  your  company.  4.  Seldom  discommend  any
thing  though  never  so  bad,  or  do  it  but  moderately,  lest  you  be
unexpectedly  forced  to  an  unhandsome  retraction.  It  is  safer  to
commend  any  thing  more  than  it  deserves,  than  to  discommend
a  thing  so  much  as  it  deserves;  for  commendations  meet  not
so  often  with  oppositions,  or,  at  least,  are  not  usually  so  ill  re
sented  by  men  that  think  otherwise,  as  discommendations  ;  and
you  will  insinuate  into  men's  favour  by  nothing  sooner  than  seem
ing  to  approve  and  commend  what  they  like  ;  but  beware  o
doing  it  by  comparison.  5.  If  you  be  affronted,  it  is  better,  in  c
foreign  country,  to  pass  it  by  in  silence,  and  with  a  jest,  though
with  some  dishonour,  than  to  endeavour  revenge  ;  for,  in  the  first
case,  your  credit's  ne'er  the  worse  when  you  return  into  England,
or  come  into  other  company  that  have  not  heard  of  the  quarrel.
But,  in  the  second  case,  you  may  bear  the  marks  of  the  quarrel
while  you  live,  if  you  outlive  it  at  all.  But,  if  you  find  yoursell
unavoidably  engaged,  'tis  best,  I  think,  if  you  can  command  your
passion  and  language,  to  keep  them  pretty  evenly  at  some  certain
moderate  pitch,  not  much  heightening  them  to  exasperate  your
adversary,  or  provoke  his  friends,  nor  letting  them  grow  overmuch
dejected  to  make  him  insult.  In  a  word,  if  you  can  keep  reason
above  passion,  that  and  watchfulness  will  be  your  best  defendants.
To  which  purpose  you  may  consider,  that,  though  such  excuses
is  this — He  provok't  me  so  much  I  could  not  forbear — may  pass
20   LIFE    OF    SIR    ISAAC    NEWTON.
among  friends,  yet   amongst  strangers  they  are  insignificant,  ina
only  argue  a  traveller's  weakness.
"  To  these  I  may  add  some  general  heads  for  inquiries  or  ob
servations,  such  as  at  present  I  can  think  on.  As,  1.  To  observe
the  policies,  wealth,  and  state  affairs  of  nations,  so  far  as  a  soli-
fary  traveller  may  conveniently  do.  2.  Their  impositions  upon
all  sorts  of  people,  trades,  or  commodities,  that  are  remarkable.
3.  Their  laws  and  customs,  how  far  they  differ  from  ours.  4.
Their  trades  and  arts  wherein  they  excel  or  come  short  of  us  in
England.  5.  Such  fortifications  as  you  shall  meet  with,  their
fashion,  strength,  and  advantages  for  defence,  and  other  such  mili
tary  affairs  as  are  considerable.  6.  The  power  and  respect  be
longing  to  their  degrees  of  nobility  or  magistracy.  7.  It  will  not
be  time  misspent  to  make  a  catalogue  of  the  names  and  excellen
cies  of  those  men  that  are  most  wise,  learned,  or  esteemed  in  any
nation.  8.  Observe  the  mechanism  and  manner  of  guiding  ships.
9.  Observe  the  products  of  Nature  in  several  places,  especially  in
mines,  with  the  circumstances  of  mining  and  of  extracting  metals
or  minerals   out  of  their  ore,  and  of  refining  them  ;  and  if  you
meet  with   any  transmutations   out    of  their  own    species    into
another  (as  out  of  iron  into  copper,  out  of  any  metal  into  quick
silver,  out  of  one  salt  into  another,  or  into  an  insipid  body,  &c.),
those,  above  all,  will  be  worth  your  noting,  being  the  most  lucif-
erous,  and  many  times  lucriferous  experiments,  too,  in  philosophy.
10.  The   prices   of  diet   and  other  things.      11.  And  the  staple
commodities  of  places.
"  These  generals  (such  as  at  present  I  could  think  of),  if  they
will  serve  for  nothing  else,  yet  they  may  assist  you  in  drawing  up
a  model  to  regulate  your  travels  by.  '  As  for  particulars,  these  that
follow  are  all  that  1  can  now  think  of,  viz.  ;  whether  at  Schem-
nitium,  in  Hungary  (where  there  are  mines  of  gold,  copper,  iron,
vitriol,  antimony,  &c.).  they  change  iron  into  copper  by  dissolving
»t  in  a  vitriolate  water,  which  they  find  in  cavities  of  rocks  in  the
mines,  and  then  melting  the  slimy  solution  in  a  stroi  ig  fire,  which
in  the  cooling  proves  copper.  The  like  is  said  to  be  done  in  other
places,  which  I  cannot  now  remember  ;  perhaps,  too,  it  may  be
lone  in  Italy.  For  about  twenty  or  thirty  years  agone  there  was
LIFE    OF    SIR    ISAAC    NEWTON,   21
a  certain  vitriol  came  from  thence  (called  Roman  vitriol),  but  of
a  nobler  virtue  than  that  which  is  now  called  by  that  name  ;
which  vitriol  is  not  now  to  be  gotten,  because,  perhaps,  they  make
a  greater  gain  by  some  such  trick  as  turning  iron  into  copper
with  it  than  by  selling  it.  2.  Whether,  in  Hungary,  Sclavonia,
Bohemia,  near  the  town  Eila,  or  at  the  mountains  of  Bohemia
near  Silesia,  there  be  rivers  whose  waters  are  impregnated  with
gold  ;  perhaps,  the  gold  being  dissolved  by  some  corrosive  water
like  aqua  regis,  and  the  solution  carried  along  with  the  stream,
that  runs  through  the  mines.  And  whether  the  practice  of  laying
mercury  in  the  rivers,  till  it  be  tinged  with  gold,  and  then  strain
ing  the  mercury  through  leather,  that  the  gold  may  stay  behind,
be  a  secret  yet,  or  openly  practised.  3.  There  is  newly  con
trived,  in  Holland,  a  mill  to  grind  glasses  plane  withal,  and  I
think  polishing  them  too  ;  perhaps  it  will  be  worth  the  while  to  see
it.     4.  There  is  in  Holland  one     Borry,  who  some  years  since
was  imprisoned  by  the  Pope,  to  have  extorted  from  him  secrets
(as  I  am  told)  of  great  worth,  both  as  to  medicine  and  profit,  but
he  escaped  into  Holland,  where  they  have  granted  him  a  guard.
I  think  he  usually  goes  clothed  in  green.  Pray  inquire  what  you
can  of  him,  and  whether  his  ingenuity  be  any  profit  to  the  Dutch.
You  may  inform  yourself  whether  the  Dutch  have  any  tricks  to
keep  their  ships  from  being  all  worm-eaten  in  their  voyages  to
the  Indies.  Whether  pendulum  clocks  do  any  service  in  finding
out  the  longitude,  &c.
"  I  am  very  weary,  and  shall  not  stay  to  part  with  a  long
compliment,  only  I  wish  you  a  good  journey,  and  God  be  with
you." It  was  not  till  the  month  of  June,  1669,  that  our  author  made
known  his  Method  of  Fluxions.  He  then  communicated  the
work  which  he  had  composed  upon  the  subject,  and  entitled,
ANALYSIS  PER  EQUATIONES  NUMERO  TERMINORUM  INFINITAS,
to  his  friend  Dr.  Barrow.  The  latter,  in  a  letter  dated  20th  of  the
same  month,  mentioned  it  to  Mr.  Collins,  and  transmitted  it  to
him,  on  the  31st  of  July  thereafter.  Mr.  Collins  greatly  approv>
ed  of  the  work  ;  took  a  copy  of  it ;  and  sent  the  original  back
to  Dr.  Barrow.  During  the  same  and  the  two  following  years,  Mr
<   LIFE    OF    SIR    ISAAC    NEWTON.
Collins,  by  his  extensive  correspondence,  spread  the  knowledge
of  this  discovery  among  the  mathematicians  in  England,  Scotland,
France,  Holland  and  Italy.
Dr.  Barrow,  having  resolved  to  devote  himself  to  Theology,
resigned  the  Lucasian  Professorship  of  Mathematics,  in  1669,  in
favour  of  Newton,  who  accordingly  received  the  appointment  to
the  vacant  chair.
During  the  years  1669,  1670,  and  1671,  our  author,  as  such
Professor,  delivered  a  course  of  Optical  Lectures.  Though  these
contained  his  principal  discoveries  relative  to  the  different  re-
frangibility  of  light,  yet  the  discoveries  themselves  did  not  be
come  publicly  known,  it  seems,  till  he  communicated  them  to  the
Royal  Society,  a  few  weeks  after  being  elected  a  member  there
of,  in  the  spring  of  1671-2.  He  now  rose  rapidly  in  reputation,
and  was  soon  regarded  as  foremost  among  the  philosophers  of  the
age.  His  paper  on  light  excited  the  deepest  interest  in  the  Royal
Society,  who  manifested  an  anxious  solicitude  to  secure  the  author
from  the  "  arrogations  of  others,"  and  proposed  to  publish  his
discourse  in  the  monthly  numbers  in  which  the  Transactions  were
given  to  the  world.  Newton,  gratefully  sensible  of  these  expres
sions  of  esteem,  willingly  accepted  of  the  proposal  for  publication.
He  gave  them  also,  at  this  time,  the  results  of  some  further  ex
periments  in  the  decomposition  and  re-composition  of  light : — that
the  same  degree  of  refrangibility  always  belonged  to  the  same
colour,  and  the  same  colour  to  the  same  degree  of  refrangibility  :
that  the  seven  different  colours  of  the  spectrum  were  original,  or
simple,  and  that  whiteness^  or  white  light  was  a  compound  of  all
these  seven  colours.
The  publication  of  his  new  doctrines  on  light  soon  called  forth
violent  opposition  as  to  their  soundness.  Hooke  and  Huygens —
men  eminent  for  ability  and  learning — were  the  most  conspicuous
of  the  assailants.  And  though  Newton  effectually  silenced  all  his
adversaries,  yet  he  felt  the  triumph  of  little  gain  in  comparison
.vith  the  loss  his  tranquillity  had  sustained.  He  subsequently  re-
narked  in  allusion  to  this  controversy — and  to  one  with  whom
he  was  destined  to  have  a  longer  and  a  bitterer  conflict —  "  I  was
so  persecuted  with  discussions  arising  from  the  publication  of  m  v
LIFE    OF    SIR    ISAAC    NEWTON.   23
theory  ot  light,  that  I  blamed  my  own  imprudence  for  parting
with  so  substantial  a  blessing  as  rny  quiet  to  run  after  a  shadow.7'
In  a  communication  to  Mr.  Oldenburg,  Secretary  of  the  Royal
Society,  in  1672,  our  author  stated  many  valuable  suggestions  re
lative  to  the  construction  of  REFLECTING  MICROSCOPES  which  he
considered  even  more  capable  of  improvement  than  telescopes.
He  also  contemplated,  about  the  same  time,  an  edition  of  Kirick-
huysen's  Algebra,  with  notes  and  additions;  partially  arranging,
as  an  introduction  to  the  work,  a  treatise,  entitled,  A  Method  of
Fluxions  ;  but  he  finally  abandoned  the  design.  This  treatise,
however,  he  resolved,  or  rather  consented,  at  a  late  period  of  his
life,  to  put  forth  separately  ;  and  the  plan  would  probably  have
been  carried  into  execution  had  riot  his  death  intervened.  It  was
translated  into  English,  and  published  in  1736  by  John  Colson,
Professor  of  Mathematics  in  Cambridge.
Newton,  it  is  thought,  made  his  discoveries  concerning  the
INFLECTION  and  DIFFRACTION  of  light  before  1674.  The  phe
nomena  of  the  inflection  of  light  had  been  first  discovered  more
than  ten  years  before  by  Grimaldi.  And  Newton  began  by  re
peating  one  of  the  experiments  of  the  learned  Jesuit — admitting
a  beam  of  the  sun's  light  through  a  small  pin  hole  into  a  dark
chamber  :  the  light  diverged  from  the  aperture  in  the  form  of  a,
cone,  and  the  shadows  of  all  bodies  placed  in  this  light  were
larger  than  might  have  been  expected,  and  surrounded  with  three
coloured  fringes,  the  nearest  being  widest,  and  the  most  remote
the  narrowest.  Newton,  advancing  upon  this  experiment,  took
exact  measures  of  the  diameter  of  the  shadow  of  a  human  hair,
and  of  the  breadth  of  the  fringes,  at  different  distances  behind  it,
and  discovered  that  these  diameters  and  breadths  were  not  pro
portional  to  the  distances  at  which  they  were  measured.  He
hence  supposed  that  the  rays  which  passed  by  the  edge  of  the
hair  were  deflected  or  turned  aside  from  it,  as  if  by  a  repulsive
force,  the  nearest  rays  suffering  the  greatest,  the  more  remote  a
less  degree  of  deflection.  In  explanation  of  the  coloured  fringes,
he  queried  :  whether  the  rays  which  differ  in  refrangibility  do  not
differ  also  in  flexibility,  and  whether  they  are  n<»t,  by  these  dif
ferent  inflections,  separated  from  one  another,  so  as  after  separa-
<   LIFE    OF    SIR    ISAAC    NEWTON.
tion  to  make  the  colours  in  the  three  fringes  above  described  ?
Also,  whether  the  rays,  in  passing  by  the  edges  and  sides  ol
bodies,  are  not  bent  several  times  backwards  and  forwards  with
an  eel-like  motion — the  three  fringes  arising  from  three  such
bendings  ?  His  inquiries  on  this  subject  were  here  interrupted
and  fiever  renewed.
His  Theory  of  the  COLOURS  of  NATURAL  BODIES  was  commu
nicated  to  the  Royal  Society,  in  February,  1675.  This  is  justly
regarded  as  one  of  the  profoundest  of  his  speculations.  The  fun
damental  principles  of  the  Theory  in  brief,  are  : — That  bodies
possessing  the  greatest  refractive  powers  reflect  the  greatest
quantity  of  light ;  and  that,  at  the  confines  of  equally  refracting
media,  there  is  no  reflection.  That  the  minutest  particles  of  al
most  all  natural  bodies  are  in  some  degree  transparent.  That
between  the  particles  of  bodies  there  are  pores,  or  spaces,  either
empty  or  filled  with  media  of  a  less  density  than  the  particles
themselves.  That  these  particles,  and  pores  or  spaces,  have  some
definite  size.  Hence  he  deduced  the  Transparency,  Opacity,  and
colours  of  natural  bodies.  Transparency  arises  from  the  particles
and  their  pores  being  too  small  to  cause  reflection  at  their  com
mon  surfaces — the  light  all  passing  through  ;  Opacity  from  the
opposite  cause  of  the  particles  and  their  pores  being  sufficiently
large  to  reflect  the  light  which  is  "  stopped  or  stifled7'  by  the
multitude  of  reflections  ;  and  colours  from  the  particles,  accord
ing  to  their  several  sizes,  reflecting  rays  of  one  colour  and  trans
mitting  those  of  another — or  in  other  words,  the  colour  that
meets  the  eye  is  the  colour  reflected,  while  all  the  other  rays  are
transmitted  or  absorbed.
Analogous  in  origin  to  the  colours  of  natural  bodies,  he  con
sidered  the  COLOURS  OF  THIN  PLATES.  This  subject  was  interest
ing  and  important,  and  had  attracted  considerable  investigation.
He,  however,  was  the  first  to  determine  the  law  of  the  produc
tion  of  these  colours,  arid,  during  the  same  year  made  known  the
results  of  his  researches  herein  to  the  Royal  Society.  His  mode
of  procedure  in  these  experiments  was  simple  and  curious.  He
placed  a  double  convex  lens  of  a  large  known  radius  of  curvature,
the  flat  surface  of  a  plano-convex  object  glass.  Thus,  from
UFE    OF    SIR    ISAAC    NEWTON.   25
their  point  of  contact  at  the  centre,  to  the  circumference  of  the
lens,  he  obtained  plates  of  air,  or  spaces  varying  from  the  ex-
tremest  possible  thinness,  by  slow  degrees,  to  a  considerable  thick
ness.  Letting  the  light  fall,  every  different  thickness  of  this
plate  of  air  gave  different  colours — the  point  of  contact  of  the
lens  and  glass  forming  the  centre  of  numerous  concentric  colored
nags.  Now  the  radius  of  curvature  of  the  lens  being  known,  the
thickness  of  the  plate  of  air,  at  any  given  point,  or  where  any  par
ticular  colour  appeared,  could  be  exactly  determined.  Carefully
noting,  therefore,  the  order  in  which  the  different  colours  ap
peared,  he  measured,  with  the  nicest  accuracy,  the  different  thick*
nesses  at  which  the  most  luminous  parts  of  the  rings  were  pro
duced,  whether  the  medium  were  air,  water,  or  mica —  all  these
substances  giving  the  same  colours  at  different  thicknesses  ; — the
ratio  of  which  he  also  ascertained.  From  the  phenomena  obser
ved  in  these  experiments,  Newton  deduced  his  Theory  of  Fits  of
EASY  REFLECTION  AND  TRANSMISSION  of  light.  It  consists  in  suppos
ing  that  every  particle  of  light,  from  its  first  discharge  from  a  lumi
nous  body,  possesses,  at  equally  distant  intervals,  dispositions  to
be  reflected  from,  or  transmitted  through  the  surfaces  of  bodies
upon  which  it  may  fall.  For  instance,  if  the  rays  are  in  a  Fit  of
Easy  Reflection,  they  are  on  reaching  the  surface,  repelled,
thrown  off]  or  reflected  from  it ;  if,  in  a  Fit  of  Easy  Transmission,
they  are  attracted,  drawn  in,  or  transmitted  through  it.  By  this
Theory  of  Fits,  our  author  likewise  explained  the  colours  of
thick  plates.
He  regarded  light  as  consisting  of  small  material  particles
emitted  from  shining  substances.  He  thought  that  these  parti
cles  could  be  re-combined  into  solid  matter,  so  that  "  gross  bodies
and  light,  were  convertible  into  one  another  ;"  that  the  particles  of
light  and  the  particles  of  solid  bodies  acted  mutually  upon  each
other  ;  those  of  light  agitating  and  heating  those  of  solid  bodies,
and  the  latter  attracting  and  repelling  the  former.  Newton  was
the  first  to  suggest  the  idea  of  the  POLARIZATION  of  light.
In  the  paper  entitled  An  Hypothesis  Explaining  Properties  of
Light,  December,  1675,  our  author  first  introduced  his  opinions  re
specting  Ether — opinions  which  he  afterward  abandoned  and  again
26   LIFE    OF    SIR      S.\AC    1SEWTON.
permanently  resumed —  "  A  most  subtle  spirit  which  pervades"  ah
bodies,  and  is  expanded  through  all  the  heavens.  It  is  electric,
and  almost,  if  not  quite  immeasurably  elastic  and  rare.  "  By  the
force  and  action  of  which  spirit  the  particles  of  bodies  mutually
attract  one  another,  at  near  distances,  and  cohere,  if  contiguous  ;
and  electric  bodies  operate  at  greater  distances,  as  well  repelling
as  attracting  the  neighbouring  corpuscles  ;  and  light  is  emitted,
-reflected,  refracted,  inflected  and  heats  bodies  ;  and  all  sensation
is  excited,  and  the  members  of  animal  bodies  move  at  the  com
mand  of  the  will,  namely,  by  the  vibrations  of  this  spirit,  mutu
ally  propagated  along  the  solid  filaments  of  the  nerves,  from  the
outward  organs  of  sense  to  the  brain,  and  from  the  brain  into  the
muscles."  This  "  spirit"  was  no  anima  mundi  ;  nothing  further
from  the  thought  of  Newton  ;  but  was  it  not,  on  his  part,  a  par
tial  recognition  of,  or  attempt  to  reach  an  ultimate  material  force,
or  primary  element,  by  means  of  which,  "  in  the  roaring  loom  of
time,"  this  material  universe,  God's  visible  garment,  may  be
woven  for  us  ?
The  Royal  Society  were  greatly  interested  in  the  results  of
some  experiments,  which  our  author  had,  at  the  same  time,  com
municated  to  them  relative  to  the  excitation  of  electricity  in  glass  ;
and  they,  after  several  attempts  and  further  direction  from  him,
succeeded  in  re-producing  the  same  phenomena.
One  of  the  most  curious  of  Newton's  minor  inquiries  related  to
the  connexion  between  the  refractive  powers  and  chemical  com
position  of  bodies.  He  found  on  comparing  the  refractive  powers
and  the  densities  of  many  different  substances,  that  the  former
were  very  nearly  proportional  to  the  latter,  in  the  same  bodies.
Unctuous  and  sulphureous  bodies  were  noticed  as  remarkable  excep
tions — as  well  as  the  diamond — their  refractive  powers  being  two
or  three  times  greater  in  respect  of  their  densities  than  in  the
case  of  other  substances,  while,  as  among  themselves,  the  one  was
generally  proportional  to  the  other.  He  hence  inferred  as  to  the
diamond  a  great  degree  of  combustibility  •; — a  conjecture  which
the  experiments  of  modern  chemistry  have  shown  to  be  true.
The  chemical  researches  of  our  author  were  probably  pursued
with  more  or  less  diligence  from  the  time  of  his  witnessing  some
LIFE    OF    .SIR    ISAAC    NEWTON.   27
?t'  the  uractical  operations  in  that  science  at  the  Apothecary's  at
Grantham.     DE  NATURA  ACIDORUM  is  a  short  chemical  paper,  on
various   topics,   and  published   in  Dr.   Horsley's  Edition  of  his
works.     TABULA  QUANTITATUM  E  r  GRADUUM  COLORIS  was  in
serted  iii  the  Philosophical  Transactions  ;  it  contains  a  compara
tive  scale  of  temperature  from  that  of  melting  ice  to  that  of  a
small  kitchen  coal-fire.     He  regarded  fire  as  a  body  heated  so  hot
as  to  emit  light  copiously  ;  and  flame  as  a  vapour,  fume,  or  ex
halation  heated   so  hot  as  to  shine.     To  elective  attraction,  by
the  operation  of  which  the  small  particles  of  bodies,  as  he  con
ceived,  act  upon  one  another,  at  distances  so  minute  as  to  escape
observation,  he  ascribed  all  the   various   chemical  phenomena  ot
precipitation,  combination,  solution,  and   crystallization,   and   the
mechanical  phenomena  of  cohesion  and  capillary  attraction.    New
ton's  chemical  views  were   illustrated  and  confirmed,  in  part,  at
least,  in  his  own  life-time.     As  to  the  structure  of  bodies,  he  was
of  opinion  "  that  the  smallest  particles  of  matter   may  cohere  by
the  strongest  attractions,  and  compose  bigger  particles  of  weaker
virtue  ;  and  many  of  these  may  cohere  and  compose  bigger  par
tides  whose  virtue  is  still  weaker  ;  and  so  on  for  divers  succes
sions,  until  the  progression  end  in  the  biggest  particles,  on  which
the  operations  in  chemistry  and  the  colours  of  natural  bodies  de
pend,  and  which  by  adhering,  compose  bodies  of  sensible  magni
tude."
There  is  good  reason  to  suppose  that  our  author  was  a  diligent
student  of  the  writings  of  Jacob  Behmen  ;  and  that  in  conjunction
with  a  relative,  Dr.  Newton,  he  was  busily  engaged,  for  several
months  in  the  earlier  part  of  life,  in  quest  of  the  philosopher's
tincture.  "  Great  Alchymist,"  however,  very  imperfectly  de
scribes  the  character  of  Behmen,  whose  researches  into  things
material  and  things  spiritual,  things  human  and  things  divine,  ai-
ford  the  strongest  evidence  of  a  great  and  original  mind.
More  appropriately  here,  perhaps,  than  elsewhere,  may  be
given  Newton's  account  of  some  curious  experiments,  made  in  his
own  person,  on  the  action  of  light  upon  the  retina,  Locke,  who
was  an  intimate  friend  of  our  author,  wrote  to  him  for  his  opinion
on  a  certain  fact  stated  in  Boyle's  Book  of  Colours.  Newton,  in
2S   LIFE    OF    SIR    ISAAC    NEWTON.
his  reply,  dated  June  30th,  16(Jl,  narrates  the  following  circum
stances,  which  probably  took  place  in  the  course  of  his  optical
researches.  Thus  : —
"  The  observation  you  mention  in  Mr.  Boyle's  Book  of  Colours
I  once  tried  upon  myself  with  the  hazard  of  my  eyes.  The
manner  was  this ;  I  looked  a  very  little  while  upon  the  sun  in  the
looking-glass  with  my  right  eye,  and  then  turned  my  eyes  into  a
dark  corner  of  my  chamber,  arid  winked,  to  observe  the  impres
sion  made,  and  the  circles  of  colours  which  encompassed  it,  and
how  they  decayed  by  degrees,  and  at  last  vanished.  This  I  re
peated  a  second  and  a  third  time.  At  the  third  time,  when  the
phantasm  of  light  and  colours  about  it  were  almost  vanished,  in
tending  my  fancy  upon  them  to  see  their  last  appearance,  I  found,
to  my  amazement,  that  they  began  to  return,  and  by  little  and
little  to  become  as  lively  and  vivid  as  when  I  had  newly  looked
upon  the  sun.  But  when  I  ceased  to  intend  my  fancy  upon  them,
they  vanished  again.  After  this,  I  found,  that  as  often  as  I  went
into  the  dark,  and  intended  my  mind  upon  them,  as  when  a  man
looks  earnestly  to  see  anything  which  is  difficult  to  be  seen,  I
could  make  the  phantasm  return  without  looking  any  more  upon
the  sun  ;  and  the  oftener  I  made  it  return,  the  more  easily  I  could
make  it  return  again.  And,  at  length,  by  repeating  this,  without
looking  any  more  upon  the  sun,  I  made  such  an  impression  on  my
eye,  that,  if  I  looked  upon  the  clouds,  or  a  book,  or  any  bright
object,  I  saw  upon  it  a  round  bright  spot  of  light  like  the  sun,
and,  which  is  still  stranger,  though  I  looked  upon  the  sun  with
my  right  eye  only,  and  not  with  my  left,  yet  my  fancy  began  *o
make  an  impression  upon  my  left  eye,  as  well  us  upon  my  right.
For  if  I  shut  my  right  eye,  or  looked  upon  a  book,  or  the  clouds,
with  my  left  eye,  I  could  see  the  spectrum  of  the  sun  almost  as
plain  as  with  my  right  eye,  if  I  did  but  intend  my  fancy  a  little
while  upon  it ;  for  at  first,  if  I  shut  my  right  eye,  and  looked  with
my  left,  the  spectrum  of  the  sun  did  not  appear  till  I  intended  my
fancy  upon  it ;  but  by  repeating,  this  appeared  every  time  more
easily.  And  now,  in  a  few  hours'  time,  I  had  brought  my  eyes
to  such  a  pass,  that  I  could  look  upon  no  blight  object  with  either
eye,  but  I  saw  the  sun  before  me,  so  that  I  durst  neither  write
LIFE    OF    SIR    ISAAC    NEWTON.   29
nor  read  ;  but  to  recover  the  use  of  my  eyes,  shut  myself  up  in
my  chamber  made  dark,  for  three  days  together,  and  used  all
means  to  divert  my  imagination  from  the  sun.  For  if  I  thought
upon  him,  I  presently  saw  his  picture,  though  I  was  in  the  dark.
But  by  keeping  in  the  dark,  and  employing  my  mind  about  other
things,  I  began  in  three  or  four  days  to  have  some  use  of  my  eyes
again ;  and  by  forbearing  to  look  upon  bright  objects,  recovered
them  pretty  well,  though  not  so  well  but  that,  for  some  months
after,  the  spectrum  of  the  sun  began  to  return  as  often  as  I  began
to  meditate  upon  the  phenomena,  even  though  I  lay  in  bed  at  mid
night  with  my  curtains  drawn.  But  now  I  have  been  very  well
for  many  years,  though  I  am  apt  to  think,  if  I  durst  venture  my
eyes,  I  could  still  make  the  phantasm  return  by  the  power  of  my
fancy.  This  story  I  tell  you,  to  let  you  understand,  thaj;  in  the
observation  related  by  Mr.  Boyle,  the  man's  fancy  probably  con
curred  with  the  impression  made  by  the  sun's  light  to  produce
that  phantasm  of  the  sun  which  he  constantly  saw  in  bright  ob
jects.  And  so  your  question  about  the  cause  of  phantasm  in
volves  another  about  the  power  of  fancy,  which  I  must  confess  is
too  hard  a  knot  for  me  to  untie.  To  place  this  effect  in  a  constant
motion  is  hard,  because  the  sun  ought  then  to  appear  perpetually.
It  seems  rather  to  consist  in  a  disposition  of  the  sensorium  to
move  the  imagination  strongly,  and  to  be  easily  moved,  both  by
the  imagination  and  by  the  light,  as  often  as  bright  objects  are
looked  upon."J
Though  Newton  had  continued  silent,  yet  his  thoughts  were
by  no  means  inactive  upon  the  vast  subject  of  the  planetary  mo
tions.  The  idea  of  Universal  Gravitation,  first  caught  sight  of,  so
to  speak,  in  the  garden  at  Woolsthorpe,  years  ago,  had  gradually
expanded  upon  him.  We  find  him,  in  a  letter  to  Dr.  Hooke,
Secretary  of  the  Royal  Society,  dated  in  November,  1679,  pro
posing  to  verify  the  motion  of  the  earth  by  direct  experiment,
namely,  by  the  observation  of  the  path  pursued  by  a  body  falling
from  a  considerable  height.  He  had  concluded  that  the  path
would  be  spiral ;  but  Dr.  Hooke  maintained  that  it  would  be  an
eccentric  ellipse  iu  vacuo,

---

wise  account  for  an  extraor
dinary  light,  as  those  were,  appearing,  all  at  once,  among  the
the  fixed  stars  (all  which  he  took  to  be  suns,  enlightening  other
planets,  as  our  sun  does  ours),  as  big  as  Mercury  or  Venus  seems
to  us,  and  gradually  diminishing,  for  sixteen  months,  and  then
sinking  into  nothing.  He  seemed  to  doubt  whether  there  were
not  intelligent  beings,  superior  to  us,  who  superintended  these
revolutions  of  the  heavenly  bodies,  by  the  direction  of  the  Supreme
Being.  He  appeared  also  to  be  very  clearly  of  opinion  that  the
inhabitants  of  this  world  were  of  short  date,  and  alledged,  as  one
reason  for  that  opinion,  that  all  arts,  as  letters,  ships,  printing,
needle,  &c.,  were  discovered  within  the  memory  of  history,  which
could  not  have  happened  if  the  world  had  been  eternal  ;  and  that
there  were  visible  marks  of  ruin  upon  it  which  could  not  be
effected  by  flood  only.  When  I  asked  him  how  this  earth  could
have  been  repeopled  if  ever  it  had  undergone  the  same  fate
it  was  threatened  with  hereafter,  by  the  comet  of  1680,  he
answered,  that  required  the  power  of  a  Creator.  He  said  he
took  all  the  planets  to  be  composed  of  the  same  matter  with  this
earth,  viz. :  earth,  water,  stones,  &c.3  but  variously  concocted.  J
LIFE    OP    SIR    ISAAC    NEWTON.   55
asked  him  why  he  would  not  publish  his  conjectures,  as  conjec
tures,  and  instanced  that  Kepler  had  communicated  his ;  and
though  he  had  not  gone  near  so  far  as  Kepler,  yet  Kepler's
guesses  were  so  just  and  happy  that  they  had  been  proved  and
demonstrated  by  him.  His  answer  was,  "  I  do  not  deal  in  con
jectures."  But,  on  my  talking  to  him  about  the  four  observations
that  had  been  made  of  the  comet  of  1680,  at  574  years'  distance,
and  asking  him  the  particular  times,  he  opened  his  Principia,
which  laid  on  the  table,  and  showed  me  the  particular  periods,
viz.:  1st.  The  Julium  Sidus,  in  the  time  of  Justinian,  in  1106,
in  1680.
"  And  I,  observing  that  he  said  there  of  that  comet,  '  incidet
in  corpus  solis,'  and  in  the  next  paragraph  adds,  '  stellae  fixae
refici  possunt,'  told  him  I  thought  he  owned  there  what  we  had
been  talking  about,  viz. :  that  the  comet  would  drop  into  the  sun,
and  that  fixed  stars  were  recruited  and  replenished  by  comets
when  they  dropped  into  them  ;  and,  consequently,  that  the  sun
would  be  recruited  too ;  and  asked  him  why  he  would  not  own  as
fully  what  he  thought  of  the  sun  as  well  as  what  he  thought  of
the  fixed  stars.  He  said,  'that  concerned  us  more;'  and,  laugh
ing,  added,  that  he  had  said  enough  for  people  to  know  his
meaning."
In  the  summer  of  1725,  a  French  translation  of  the  chronolo
gical  MS.,  of  which  the  Abbe  Conti  had  been  permitted,  some
time  previous,  to  have  a  copy,  was  published  at  Paris,  in  violation
of  all  good  faith.  The  Punic  Abbe  had  continued  true  to  his
promise  of  secrecy  while  he  remained  in  England  ;  but  no  sooner
did  he  reach  Paris  than  he  placed  the  manuscript  into  the  hands
of  M.  Freret,  a  learned  antiquarian,  who  translated  the  work,  and
accompanied  it  with  an  attempted  refutation  of  the  leading  points
of  the  system.  In  November,  of  the  same  year,  Newton  received
a  presentation  copy  of  this  publication,  which  bore  the  title  of
ABREGE  DE  CHRONOLOGIE  DE  M.  LE  CHEVALIER  NEWTON,  FAIT
PAR  LUI-MEME,  ET   TRADUIT    SUR    LE    MANUSCRIPT   ANGLAIS.        Soon
afterward  a  paper  entitled,  REMARKS  ON  TFE  OBERVATIONS  MADE
ON  A  CHRONOLOGICAL  INDEX  OF  SIR  ISAAC  NE.WTON,  TRANSLATED
INTO  FRENCH  BY  THE  OBSERVATOR,  ANL  PUBLISHED  AT  PARIS,
56   LIFE    OF    SIR    ISAAC    NEWTON,
was  drawn  up  by  our  author,  and  printed  in  the  Philosophical
Transactions  for  1725.  It  contained  a  history  of  the  whole
matter,  and  a  triumphant  reply  to  the  objections  of  M.  Freret.
This  answer  called  into  the  field  a  fresh  antagonist,  Father  Soueiet,
whose  five  dissertations  on  this  subject  were  chiefly  remarkable
for  the  want  of  knowledge  and  want  of  decorum,  which  they
displayed.  In  consequence  of  these  discussions,  Newton  was  in
duced  to  prepare  his  larger  work  for  the  press,  and  had  nearly
completed  it  at  the  time  of  his  death.  It  was  published  in  1728,
under  the  title  of  THE  CHRONOLOGY  OF  THE  ANCIENT  KINGDOMS
AMENDED,  TO  WHICH  is  PREFIXED  A  SHORT  CHRONICLE  FROM  THE
FIRST  MEMORY  OF  THINGS   IN    EUROPE    TO    THE    CONQUEST    OF
PERSIA  BY  ALEXANDER  THE  GREAT.  It  consists  of  six  chap
ters:  1.  On  the  Chronology  of  the  Greeks;  according  to  Whis-
ton,  our  author  wrote  out  eighteen  copies  of  this  chapter  with  his
own  hand,  differing  little  from  one  another.  2.  Of  the  Empire
of  Egypt;  3.  Of  the  Assyrian  Empire;  4.  Of  the  two  contempo
rary  Empires  of  the  Babylonians  and  Medes  ;  5.  A  Description
of  the  Temple  of  Solomon  ;  6.  Of  the  Empire  of  the  Persians  ;
this  chapter  was  not  found  copied  with  the  other  five,  but  as  it
was  discovered  among  his  papers,  arid  appeared  to  be  a  continu
ation  of  the  same  work,  the  Editor  thought  proper  to  add  it
thereto.  Newton's  LETTER  TO  A  PERSON  OF  DISTINCTION  WHO
HAD  DESIRED   HIS  OPINION  OF   THE    LEARNED    BlSHO^    LLOYD'S
HYPOTHESIS  CONCERNING  THE  FORM  OF  THE  MOST  ANCIENT
^EAR,  closes  this  enumeration  of  his  Chronological  Writings.
A  ihird  edition  of  the  PRINCIPIA  appeared  in  1726,  with  many
changes  and  additions.  About  four  years  were  consumed  in  its
preparation  and  publication,  which  were  under  the  superintend-
ance  of  Dr.  Henry  Pemberton,  an  accomplished  mathematician,
and  the  author  of  "A  VIEW  OF  SIR  ISAAC  NEWTON'S  PHILO
SOPHY."  1728.  This  gentleman  enjoyed  numerous  opportunities
of  conversing  with  the  aged  and  illustrious  author.  "  I  found,"
says  Pemberton,  "  he  had  read  fewer  of  the  modern  mathemati
cians  than  one  could  have  expected;  but  his  own  prodigious
invention  readily  supplied  him  with  what  he  might  have  an  occa
sion  for  in  the  pursuit  of  any  subject  he  undertook.  I  have  often
LIFE    OF    SIR    ISAAC    NEWTON.   57
heard  him  censure  the  handling  geometrical  subjects  ly  algebraic
calculations  ;  and  his  book  of  Algebra  he  called  by  the  name  of
Universal  Arithmetic,  in  opposition  to  the  injudicious  title  of
Geometry,  which  Descartes  had  given  to  the  treatise,  wherein  he
shows  how  the  geometer  may  assist  his  invention  by  such  kind
of  computations.  He  thought  Huygens  the  most  elegant  of  any
mathematical  writer  of  modern  times,  and  the  most  just  imitator
of  the  ancients.  Of  their  taste  and  form  of  demonstration,  Sir
Isaac  always  professed  himself  a  great  admirer.  I  have  heard
him  even  censure  himself  for  not  following  them  yet  more  closely
than  he  did  ;  and  speak  with  regret  of  his  mistake  at  the  begin
ning  of  his  mathematical  studies,  in  applying  himself  to  the  works
of  Descartes  and  other  algebraic  writers,  before  he  had  considered
the  elements  of  Euclid  with  that  attention  which  so  excellent  a
writer  deserves."
"  Though  his  memory  was  much  decayed,"  continues  Dr.  Pem-
berton,  "he  perfectly  understood  his  own  writings."  And  even
this  failure  of  memory,  we  would  suggest,  might  have  been  more
apparent  than  real,  or,  in  medical  terms,  more  the  result  of  func
tional  weakness  than  organic  decay.  Newton  seems  never  to
have  confided  largely  to  his  memory  :  and  as  this  faculty  mani
fests  the  most  susceptibility  to  cultivation  ;  so,  in  the  neglect  of
due  exercise,  it  more  readily  and  plainly  shows  a  diminution  of
its  powers.
Equanimity  and  temperance  had,  indeed,  preserved  Newton
singularly  free  from  all  mental  and  bodily  ailment.  His  hair  was,
to  the  last,  quite  thick,  though  as  white  as  silver.  He  never
made  use  of  spectacles,  and  lost  but  one  tooth  to  the  day  of  his
death.  He  was  of  middle  stature,  well-knit,  and,  in  the  latter
part  of  his  life,  somewhat  inclined  to  be  corpulent.  Mr.  Conduit
says,  "  he  had  a  very  lively  and  piercing  eye,  a  comely  and  gra
cious  aspect,  with  a  fine  head  of  hair,  white  as  silver,  without  any
baldness,  and  when  his  peruke  was  off  was  a  venerable  sight."
According  to  Bishop  Atterbury,  "in  the  whole  air  of  his  face  and
make  there  was  nothing  of  that  penetrating  sagacity  which
appears  in  his  compositions.  He  had  something  rather  languid
in  his  look  and  manner  which  did  not  raise  any  great  expectation
58   LIFE    OF    SIR    ISAAC    NEWTON.
in  those  who  did  not  know  him."  Hearne  remarks,  "  Sir  Isaac
was  a  man  of  no  very  promising  aspect.  He  was  a  short,  well-
set  man.  He  was  full  of  thought,  and  spoke  very  little  in  com
pany,  so  that  his  conversation  was  not  agreeable.  When  he  rode
in  his  coach,  one  arm  would  be  out  of  his  coach  on  one  side  and
the  other  on  the  other."  These  different  accounts  we  deem
easily  reconcilable.  In  the  rooms  of  the  Royal  Society,  in  the
street,  or  in  mixed  assemblages,  Newton's  demeanour — always
courteous,  unassuming  and  kindly —  still  had  in  it  the  overawings
of  a  profound  repose  and  reticency,  out  of  which  the  communica
tive  spirit,  and  the  "lively  and  piercing  eye"  would  only  gleam
in  the  quiet  and  unrestrained  freedom  of  his  own  fire-side.
"  But  this  I  immediately  discovered  in  him,"  adds  Pemberton,
still  further,  "which  at  once  both  surprised  and  charmed  me.
Neither  his  extreme  great  age,  nor  his  universal  reputation  had
rendered  him  stiff  in  opinion,  or  in  any  degree  elated.  Of  this  I
had  occasion  to  have  almost  daily  experience.  The  remarks  I
continually  sent  him  by  letters  on  his  Principia,  were  received
with  the  utmost  goodness.  These  were  so  far  from  being  any
ways  displeasing  to  him,  that,  on  the  contrary,  it  occasioned  him
to  speak  many  kind  things  of  me  to  my  friends,  and  to  honour  me
with  a  public  testimony  of  his  good  opinion."  A  modesty,  open
ness,  and  generosity,  peculiar  to  the  noble  and  comprehensive
spirit  of  Newton.  "  Full  of  wisdom  and  perfect  in  beauty,"  yet
not  lifted  up  by  pride  nor  corrupted  by  ambition.  None,  how
ever,  knew  so  well  as  himself  the  stupendousness  of  his  discoveries
in  comparison  with  all  that  had  been  previously  achieved  ;  and
none  realized  so  thoroughly  as  himself  the  littleness  thereof  in
comparison  with  the  vast  region  still  unexplored.  A  short  time
before  his  death  he  uttered  this  memorable  sentiment: —  "  I  do  not
know  what  I  may  appear  to  the  world  ;  but  to  myself  I  seem  to
have  been  only  like  a  boy  playing  on  the  sea-shore,  and  diverting
myself  in  now  and  then  finding  a  smoother  pebble  or  a  prettier
shell  than  ordinary,  while  the  great  ocean  of  truth  lay  all  undis
covered  before  me."  How  few  ever  reach  the  shore  even,  much
less  find  "a  smoother  pebble  or  a  prettier  shell!"
Newton  had  now  resided  about  two  years  at  Kensington  ;  and
LIFE    OF    SIR    ISAAC    NEWTON.   59
the  air  which  he  enjoyed  there,  and  the  state  of  absolute  rest,
proved  of  great  benefit  to  him.  Nevertheless  he  would  occasion
ally  go  to  town.  And  on  Tuesday,  the  28th  of  February,  1727,
he  proceeded  to  London,  for  the  purpose  of  presiding  at  a  meeting
of  the  Royal  Society.  At  this  time  his  health  was  considered,
by  Mr.  Conduit,  better  than  it  had  been  for  many  years.  But
the  unusual  fatigue  he  was  obliged  to  suffer,  in  attending  the
meeting,  and  in  paying  and  receiving  visits,  speedily  produced  a
violent  return  of  the  affection  in  the  bladder.  He  returned  to
Kensington  on  Saturday,  the  4th  of  March.  Dr.  Mead  and  Dr.
Cheselden  attended  him  ;  they  pronounced  his  disease  to  be  the
stone,  and  held  out  no  hopes  of  recovery.  On  Wednesday,  the
15th  of  March,  he  seemed  a  little  better;  and  slight,  though
groundless,  encouragement  was  felt  that  he  might  survive  the
attack.  From  the  very  first  of  it,  his  sufferings  had  been  intense.
Paroxysm  followed  paroxysm,  in  quick  succession  :  large  drops
)f  sweat  rolled  down  his  face  ;  but  not  a  groan,  not  a  complaint,
not  the  least  mark  of  peevishness  or  impatience  escaped  him  :
and  during  the  short  intervals  of  relief,  he  even  smiled  and  con
versed  with  his  usual  composure  and  cheerfulness.  The  flesh
quivered,  but  the  heart  quaked  not  ;  the  impenetrable  gloom  was
settling  down  :  the  Destroyer  near  ;  the  portals  of  the  tomb
opening,  still,  arnid  this  utter  wreck  and  dissolution  of  the  mortal,
the  immortal  remained  serene,  unconquerable  :  the  radiant  light
broke  through  the  gathering  darkness  ;  and  Death  yielded  up  its
sting,  and  the  grave  its  victory.  On  Saturday  morning,  18th,
he  read  the  newspapers,  and  carried  on  a  pretty  long  conversation
with  Dr.  Mead.  His  senses  and  faculties  were  then  strong  and
vigorous  ;  but  at  six  o'clock,  the  same  evening,  he  became  insen
sible  ;  and  in  this  state  he  continued  during  the  whole  of  Sunday,
and  till  Monday,  the  20th,  when  he  expired,  between  one  and
two  o'clock  in  the  morning,  in  the  eighty-fifth  year  of  his  age.
And  these  were  the  last  days  of  Isaac  Newton.  Thus  closed
the  career  of  one  of  earth's  greatest  and  best  men.  His  mission
was  fulfilled.  Unto  the  Giver,  in  many-fold  addition,  the  talents
were  returned.  While  it  was  yet  day  he  had  worked  ;  and  for
the  night  that  quickly  cometh  he  was  not  unprepared.  Full  of
60   LIFE    OF    SIR    ISAAC    NEWTON.
years,  ind  full  of  honours,  the  heaven-sent  was  recalled  ;  and,  in
the  confidence  of  a  "  certain  hope,"  peacefully  he  passed  awa}'
into  the  silent  depths  of  Eternity.
His  body  was  placed  in  Westminster  Abbey,  with  the  state
and  ceremonial  that  usually  attended  the  interment  of  the  most
distinguished.  In  1731,  his  relatives,  the  inheritors  of  his  personal
estate,  erected  a  monument  to  his  memory  in  the  most  conspicu
ous  part  of  the  Abbey,  which  had  often  been  refused  by  the  dean
and  chapter  to  the  greatest  of  England's  nobility.  During  the
same  year  a  medal  was  struck  at  the  Tower  in  his  honour  ;  arid,
in  1755,  a  full-length  statue  of  him,  in  white  marble,  admirably
executed,  by  Roubiliac,  at  the  expense  of  Dr.  Robert  Smith,  was
erected  in  the  ante-chamber  of  Trinity  College,  Cambridge.
There  is  a  painting  executed  in  the  glass  of  one  of  the  windows
of  the  same  college,  made  pursuant  to  the  will  of  Dr.  Smith,  who
left  five  hundred  pounds  for  that  purpose.
Newton  left  a  personal  estate  of  about  thirty-two  thousand
pounds.  It  was  divided  among  his  four  nephews  and  four  nieces
of  the  half  blood,  the  grand-children  of  his  mother,  by  the  Reve
rend  Mr.  Smith.  The  family  estates  of  Woolsthorpe  arid  Sustern
fell  to  John  Newton,  the  heir-at-law,  whose  great  grand-father
was  Sir  Isaac's  uncle.  Before  his  death  he  made  an  equitable
distribution  of  his  two  other  estates  :  the  one  in  Berkshire  to  the
sons  and  daughter  of  a  brother  of  Mrs.  Conduit  ;  and  the  other,
at  Kensington,  to  Catharine,  the  only  daughter  of  Mr.  Conduit,
and  who  afterward  became  Viscountess  Lymington.  Mr.  Con
duit  succeeded  to  the  offices  of  the  Mint,  the  duties  of  which  he
had  discharged  during  the  last  two  years  of  Sir  Isaac's  life.
Our  author's  works  are  found  in  the  collection  of  Castilion,
Berlin,  1744,  4to.  8  torn.;  in  Bishop  Horsley's  Edition,  London,
1779,  4to.  5  vol.;  in  the  Biographia  Brittannica,  &c.  Newton
also  published  Bern.  Varcnii  Geographia,  &c.,  1681,  8vo.
There  are,  however,  numerous  manuscripts,  letters,  and  other
papers,  which  have  never  been  given  to  the  world:  these  are
preserved,  in  various  collections,  namely,  in  the  library  of  Trinity
College,  Cambridge  ;  in  the  library  of  Corpus  Christi  College,
Oxford  ;  in  the  library  of  Lord  Macclesfield  :  and,  lastly  arid
LIFE    OF    SIR    ISAAC    NEWTON.   61
chiefly,  in  the  possession  of  the  family  of  the  Earl  of  Portsmouth,
through  the  Viscountess  Lymington.
Everything  appertaining  to  Newton  has  been  kept  and  che
rished  with  peculiar  veneration.  Different  memorials  of  him  are
preserved  in  Trinity  College,  Cambridge  ;  in  the  rooms  of  the
Royal  Society,  of  London  :  and  in  the  Museum  of  the  Royal
Society  of  Edinburgh.
The  manor-house,  at  Woolsthorpe,  was  visited  by  Dr.  Stuke
ley,  in  October,  1721,  who,  in  a  letter  to  Dr.  Mead,  written  in
1727,  gave  the  following  description  of  it: —  "  'Tis  built  of  stone,
as  is  the  way  of  the  country  hereabouts,  and  a  reasonably  good
one.  They  led  me  up  stairs  and  showed  me  Sir  Isaac's  stud}-,
where  I  supposed  he  studied,  when  in  the  country,  in  his  younger
days,  or  perhaps  when  he  visited  his  mother  from  the  University.
I  observed  the  shelves  were  of  his  own  making,  being  pieces  of
deal  boxes,  which  probably  he  sent  his  books  and  clothes  down
in  on  those  occasions.  There  were,  some  years  ago,  two  or  threr
hundred  books  in  it  of  his  father-in-law,  Mr.  Smith,  which  Sir
Isaac  gave  to  Dr.  Newton,  of  our  town."  The  celebrated  apple-
tree,  the  fall  of  one  of  the  apples  of  which  is  said  to  have  turned
the  attention  of  Newton  to  the  subject  of  gravity,  was  destroyed
by  the  wind  about  twenty  years  ago ;  but  it  has  been  preserved
in  the  form  of  a  chair.  The  house  itself  has  been  protected  with
religious  care.  It  was  repaired  in  1798,  and  a  tablet  of  white
marble  put  up  in  the  room  where  our  author  was  born,  with  the
follow, ng  inscription  : —
"  Sir  Isaac  Newton,  son  of  John  Newton,  Lord  of  the  Manor
of  Woolsthorpe,  was  born  in  this  room,  on  the  25th  of  December,
1642."  Nature  and  Nature's  Laws  wei-e  hid  in  night,
God  said,  "  Let  NEWTON  be,"  and  all  was  light.
THE    PEINCIPIA.
THE     AUTHOR'S    PREFACE
SINCE  the  ancients  (as  we  are  told  by  Pappus),  made  great  account  oi
the  science  of  mechanics  in  the  investigation  of  natural  things :  and  the
moderns,  laying  aside  substantial  forms  and  occult  qualities,  have  endeav
oured  to  subject  the  phenomena  of  nature  to  the  laws  of  mathematics,  I
have  in  this  treatise  cultivated  mathematics  so  far  as  it  regards  philosophy.
The  ancients  considered  mechanics  in  a  twofold  respect  ;  as  rational,  which
proceeds  accurately  by  demonstration  ;  and  practical.  To  practical  me
chanics  all  the  manual  arts  belong,  from  which  mechanics  took  its  name.
Rut  as  artificers  do  not  work  with  perfect  accuracy,  it  comes  to  pass  that
mechanics  is  so  distinguished  from  geometry,  that  what  is  perfectly  accu
rate  is  called  geometrical  ,  what  is  less  so,  is  called  mechanical.  But  the
errors  are  not  in  the  art,  but  in  the  artificers.  He  that  works  with  less
accuracy  is  an  imperfect  mechanic  ;  and  if  any  could  work  with  perfect
accuracy,  he  would  be  the  most  perfect  mechanic  of  all ;  for  the  description
if  right  lines  and  circles,  upon  which  geometry  is  founded,  belongs  to  me
chanics.  Geometry  does  not  teach  us  to  draw  these  lines,  but  requires
them  to  be  drawn  ;  for  it  requires  that  the  learner  should  f.rst  be  taught
to  describe  these  accurately,  before  he  enters  upon  geometry  ;  then  it  shows
how  by  these  operations  problems  may  be  solved.  To  describe  right  lines
and  circles  are  problems,  but  not  geometrical  problems.  The  solution  of
these  problems  is  required  from  mechanics  ;  and  by  geometry  the  use  of
them,  when  so  solved,  is  shown  ;  and  it  is  the  glory  of  geometry  that  from
those  few  principles,  brought  from  without,  it  is  able  to  produce  so  many
things.  Therefore  geometry  is  founded  in  mechanical  practice,  and  is
nothing  but  that  part  of  universal  mechanics  which  accurately  proposes
and  demonstrates  the  art  of  measuring.  But  since  the  manual  arts  are
chiefly  conversant  in  the  moving  of  bodies,  it  comes  to  pass  that  geometry
is  commonly  referred  to  their  magnitudes,  and  mechanics  to  their  motion.
In  this  sense  rational  mechanics  will  be  the  science  of  motions  resulting
from  any  forces  whatsoever,  and  of  the  forces  required  to  produce  any  mo
tions,  accurately  proposed  and  demonstrated.  This  part  of  mechanics  was
i:;vm   THE  AUTHOR  &  PREFACE.
cultivated  by  the  ancients  in  the  five  powers  which  relate  to  manual  arts,
who  considered  gravity  (it  not  being  a  manual  power),  ho  Otherwise  than
as  it  moved  weights  by  those  powers.  Our  design  not  respecting  arts,  but
philosophy,  and  our  subject  not  manual  but  natural  powers,  we  consider
chiefly  those  things  which  relate  to  gravity,  levity,  elastic  force,  the  resist
ance  of  fluids,  and  the  like  forces,  whether  attractive  or  impulsive ;  and
therefore  we  offer  this  work  as  the  mathematical  principles  :f  philosophy  ;  for
all  the  difficulty  of  philosophy  seems  to  consist  in  this — from  the  phenom
ena  of  motions  to  investigate  the  forces  of  nature,  and  then  from  these
forces  to  demonstrate  the  other  phenomena  ;  and  to  this  end  the  general
propositions  in  the  first  and  second  book  are  directed.  In  the  third  book
we  give  an  example  of  this  in  the  explication  of  the  System  of  the  World  :
for  by  the  propositions  mathematically  demonstrated  in  the  former  books,
we  in  the  third  derive  from  the  celestial  phenomena  the  forces  of  gravity
with  which  bodies  tend  to  the  sun  and  the  several  planets.  Then  from  these
forces,  by  other  propositions  which  are  also  mathematical,  we  deduce  the  mo
tions  of  the  planets,  the  comets,  the  moon,  and  the  sea.  I  wish  we  could  do-
rive  the  rest  of  the  phenomena  of  nature  by  the  same  kind  of  reasoning  from
mechanical  principles;  for  I  am  induced  by  many  reasons  to  suspect  that
they  may  all  depend  upon  certain  forces  by  which  the  particles  of  bodies.
by  some  causes  hitherto  unknown,  are  either  mutually  impelled  towards
each  other,  and  cohere  in  regular  figures,  or  are  repelled  and  recede  from
each  other;  which  forces  being  unknown,  philosophers  have  hitherto  at
tempted  the  search  of  nature  in  vain ;  but  I  hope  the  principles  here  laid
down  will  afford  some  light  either  to  this  or  some  truer  method  of  philosophy.
In  the  publication  of  this  work  the  most  acute  and  universally  learned
Mr.  Edmund  H alley  not  only  assisted  me  with  his  pains  in  correcting  the
press  and  taking  care  of  the  schemes,  but  it  was  to  his  solicitations  that  its
becoming  public  is  owing ;  for  when  he  had  obtained  of  me  my  demonstra
tions  of  the  figure  of  the  celestial  orbits,  he  continually  pressed  me  to  com
municate  the  same  to  the  Royal  Societ //,  who  afterwards,  by  their  kind  en
couragement  and  entreaties,  engaged  me  to  think  of  publishing  them.  But
after  I  had  begun  to  consider  the  inequalities  of  the  lunar  motions,  and
had  entered  upon  some  other  things  relating  to  the  laws  and  measures  oi
gravity,  and  other  forces  :  and  the  figures  that  would  be  described  by  bodies
attracted  according  to  given  laws  ;  and  the  motion  of  several  bodies  moving
among  themselves;  the  motion  of  bodies  in  resisting  mediums;  the  forces,
densities,  and  motions,  of  rn(  Hums  ;  the  orbits  of  the  comets,  and  such  like ;
Ixix
deferred  that  publication  till  I  had  made  a  searcli  into  those  matters,  and
could  put  forth  the  whole  together.  What  relates  to  the  lunar  motions  (be
ing  imperfect),  I  have  put  all  together  in  the  corollaries  of  Prop.  66,  to
avoid  being  obliged  to  propose  and  distinctly  demonstrate  the  several  things
there  contained  in  a  method  more  prolix  than  the  subject  deserved,  and  in
terrupt  the  series  of  the  several  propositions.  Some  things,  found  out  after
the  rest,  I  chose  to  insert  in  places  less  suitable,  rather  than  change  the
number  of  the  propositions  and  the  citations.  I  heartily  beg  that  what  1
have  here  done  may  be  read  with  candour;  and  that  the  defects  in  a
subject  so  difficult  be  not  so  much  reprehended  as  kindly  supplied,  and  in
vestigated  by  new  endeavours  of  mv  readers.  ISAAC  NEWTON.
Cambridge,  Trinity  Coupge    May  8,  l«iHB.
In  the  second  edition  the  second  section  of  the  first  book  was  enlarged.
In  the  seventh  section  of  the  second  book  the  theory  of  the  resistances  of  fluids
was  more  accurately  investigated,  and  confirmed  by  new  experiments.  In
the  third  book  the  moon's  theory  and  the  profession  of  the  equinoxes  were
more  fully  deduced  from  their  principles ;  and  the  theory  of  the  comets
was  confirmed  by  more  examples  of  the  calculati  >n  of  their  orbits,  done
also  with  greater  accuracy.
In  this  third  edition  the  resistance  of  mediums  is  somewhat  more  largely
handled  than  before;  and  new  experiments  of  the  resistance  of  heavy
bodies  falling  in  air  are  added.  In  the  third  book,  the  argument  to  prove
that  the  moon  is  retained  in  its  orbit  by  the  force  of  gravity  is  enlarged
on  ;  and  there  are  added  new  observations  of  Mr.  Pound's  of  the  proportion
of  the  diameters  of  Ju.piter  to  each  other  :  there  are,  besides,  added  Mr.
Kirk's  observations  of  the  comet  in  16SO  ;  the  orbit  of  that  comet  com
puted  in  an  ellipsis  by  Dr.  Halley  ;  and  the  ortit  of  the  comet  in
computed  by  Mr.  Bradley,
OOK   I.
THE
MATHEMATICAL  PRINCIPLES
OF
NATURAL    PHILOSOPHY
DEFINITIONS.
DEFINITION  I.
77w?  quantity  of  matter  is  the  measure  of  the  same,  arising  from  its
density  and  hulk  conjutictly.
THUS  air  of  a  double  density,  in  a  double  space,  is  quadruple  in  quan-
ti  ty ;  in  a  triple  space,  sextuple  in  quantity.  The  same  thing  is  to  be  un
derstood  of  snow,  and  fine  dust  or  powders,  that  are  condensed  by  compres
sion  or  liquefaction  •  and  of  all  bodies  that  are  by  any  causes  whatever
differently  condensed.  I  have  no  regard  in  this  place  to  a  medium,  if  any
such  there  is,  that  freely  pervades  the  interstices  between  the  parts  oi
bodies.  It  is  this  quantity  that  I  mean  hereafter  everywhere  under  the
name  of  body  or  mass.  And  the  same  is  known  by  the  weight  of  each
body ;  for  it  is  proportional  to  the  weight,  as  I  have  found  by  experiments
on  pendulums,  very  accurately  made,  which  shall  be  shewn  hereafter.
DEFINITION  II.
The  quantity  of  motion  is  the  measure  nf  tlie  same,  arising  from  the
velocity  and  quantity  of  matter  corjunctly.
The  motion  of  the  whole  i<!  the  sum  of  the  motions  of  all  the  parts ;  and
therefore  in  a  body  double  in  quantity,  with  equal  velocity,  the  motion  is
iouble  ;  with  twice  the  velocity,  it  is  quadruple,
DEFINITION  III.
The  vis  insita,  or  innate  force  of  matter,  is  a  power  of  resisting,  hy
which  every  body,  as  much  as  in  it  lies,  endeavours  to  persevere  in  its
present  stale,  whether  it  be  of  rest,  or  of  moving  uniformly  forward
in  a  right  line.
This  force  is  ever  proportional  to  the  body  whose  force  it  is ;  and  differs
nothing  from  the  inactivity  of  the  mass,  but  in  our  manner  of  conceiving
T4   THE   MATHEMATICAL    PRINCIPLES
it.  A  body,  from  the  inactivity  of  matter,  is  not  without  difficulty  put  out
of  its  state  of  rest  or  motion.  Upon  which  account,  this  vis  insita,  may,
by  a  most  significant  name,  be  called  vis  inertia,  or  force  of  inactivity.
Hut  a  body  exerts  this  force  only,  when  another  force,  impressed  upon  it,
endeavours  to  change  its  condition  ;  and  the  exercise  of  this  force  may  bo
considered  both  as  resistance  and  impulse  ;  it  is  resistance,  in  so  far  as  the
body,  for  maintaining  its  present  state,  withstands  the  force  impressed;  it
is  impulse,  in  so  far  as  the  body,  by  not  easily  giving  way  to  the  impressed
force  of  another,  endeavours  to  change  the  state  of  that  other.  Resistance
is  usually  ascribed  to  bodies  at  rest,  and  impulse  to  those  in  motion;
but  motion  and  rest,  as  commonly  conceived,  are  only  relatively  distin
guished  ;  nor  are  those  bodies  always  truly  at  rest,  which  commonly  are
taken  to  be  so.
DKFLMTIOX  IV.
Ait  impressed  force  is  an  action  exerted  upon  a  body,  in  order  to  change
its  state,  either  of  rest,  or  of  moving  uniformly  forward  in  a  right
line.
This  force  consists  in  the  action  only;  and  remains  no  longer  in  the
body,  when  the  action  is  over.  For  a  body  maintains  every  new  state  it
acquires,  by  its  vis  inertice  only.  Impressed  forces  are  of  differe.it  origins  •
as  from  percussion,  from  pressure,  from  centripetal  force.
DEFINITION  V.
A  centripetal  force  is  that  by  which  bodies  are  drawn  or  impelled,  or  any
way  tend,  towards  a  point  as  to  a  centre.
Of  this  sort  is  gravity,  by  which  bodies  tend  to  the  centre  of  the  earth
magnetism,  by  which  iron  tends  to  the  loadstone  ;  and  that  force,  what
ever  it  is,  by  which  the  planets  are  perpetually  drawn  aside  from  the  rec
tilinear  motions,  which  otherwise  they  would  pursue,  and  made  to  revolve
in  curvilinear  orbits.  A  stone,  whirled  about  in  a  sling,  endeavours  to  re
cede  from  the  hand  that  turns  it ;  and  by  that  endeavour,  distends  the
sling,  and  that  with  so  much  the  greater  force,  as  it  is  revolved  with  the
greater  velocity,  and  as  soon  as  ever  it  is  let  go,  flies  away.  That  force
which  opposes  itself  to  this  endeavour,  and  by  which  the  sling  perpetually
draws  back  the  stone  towards  the  hand,  and  retains  it  in  its  orbit,  because
it  is  directed  to  the  hand  as  the  centre  of  the  orbit,  I  call  the  centripetal
force.  And  the  same  thing  is  to  be  understood  of  all  bodies,  revolved  in
any  orbits.  They  all  endeavour  to  recede  from  the  centres  of  their  orbits  ;
and  wore  it  not  for  the  opposition  of  a  contrary  force  which  restrains  them
to,  and  detains  them  in  their  orbits,  which  I  therefore  call  centripetal,  would
tiy  off  in  right  lines,  with  an  uniform  motion.  A  projectile,  if  it  was  not
for  the  force  of  gravity,  would  not  deviate  towards  the  earth,  tut  would
OF    NATUJIAL    PHILOSOPHY.   7fl
go  off  from  it  in  a 

---

amation,  on  perceiving  his  loss,
was,  "  Oh  Diamond,  Diamond,  little  knowest  thou  the  mischiel
thou  hast  done,"  Dr.  Brewster,  in  his  life  of  our  author,  gives  the
following  extract  from  the  manuscript  Diary  of  Mr.  Abraham  De
La  Pryme.  a  student  in  the  University  at  the  time  of  this  oc
currence.
"  1692.  February,  3. — What  I  heard  to-day  I  must  relate.
There  is  one  Mr.  Newton  (whom  I  have  very  oft  seen),  Fellow
of  Trinity  College,  that  is  mighty  famous  for  his  learning,  being  a
most  excellent  mathematician,  philosopher,  divine,  &c.  He  has
been  Fellow  of  the  Royal  Society  these  many  years  ;  and  among
other  very  learned  books  and  tracts,  he:s  written  one  upon  the  mathe
matical  principles  of  philosophy,  which  has  given  him  a  mighty
name,  he  having  received,  especially  from  Scotland,  abundance  of
congratulatory  letters  for  the  same  ;  but  of  all  the  books  he  ever
wrote,  there  was  one  of  colours  and  light,  established  upon  thou
sands  of  experiments  which  he  had  been  twenty  years  of  making,
and  which  had  cost  him  many  hundreds  of  pounds.  This  book
which  he  vaiued  so  much,  and  which  was  so  much  talked  of,  had
the  ill  luck  to  perish,  and  be  utterly  lost  just  when  the  learned
author  was  almost  at  pitting  a  conclusion  at  the  same,  after  this
manner  :  In  a  winter's  morning,  leaving  it  among  his  other  papers
on  his  study  table  while  he  went  to  chapel,  the  candle,  which  he
had  unfortunately  left  burning  there,  too,  catched  hold  by  some
means  of  other  papers,  and  they  fired  the  aforesaid  book,  and  ut
terly  consumed  it  and  several  other  valuable  writings  ;  arid  which
is  most  wonderful  did  no  further  mischief.  But  when  Mr.  New
ton  came  from  chapel,  and  had  seen  what  was  done,  every  one
thought  he  would  have  run  mad,  he  was  so  troubled  thereat  that
he  was  not  himself  for  a  month  after.  A  long  account  of  this  his
system  of  colours  you  may  find  in  the  Transactions  of  the  Royal
Society,  which  he  had  sent  up  to  them  long  before  this  sad  mis
chance  happened  unto  him."
LIFE    OF    SIR    ISAAC    NEWTON.   43
It  will  be  borne  in  mind  that  all  of  Newton's  theological  wri
tings,  with  the  exception  of  the  Letters  to  Dr.  Bentley,  were
composed  before  this  event  which,  we  must  conclude,  from
Pryme's  words,  produced  a  serious  impression  upon  our  author  for
about  a  month.  But  M.  Biot,  in  his  Life  of  Newton,  relying  on  a
memorandum  contained  in  a  small  manuscript  Journal  of  Huygens,
declares  this  occurrence  to  have  caused  a  deran-gement  of  New
ton's  intellect.  M.  Blot's  opinions  and  deductions,  however,  as
well  as  those  of  La  Place,  upon  this  subject,  were  based  upon
erroneous  data,  and  have  been  overthrown  by  the  clearest  proof.
There  is  not,  in  fact,  the  least  evidence  that  Newton's  reason  was,
for  a  single  moment,  dethroned  ;  on  the  contrary,  the  testimony
is  conclusive  that  he  was,  at  all  times,  perfectly  capable  of  carry
ing  on  his  mathematical,  metaphysical  and  astronomical  inquiries.
Loss  of  sleep,  loss  of  appetite,  and  irritated  nerves  will  disturb
somewhat  the  equanimity  of  the  most  serene  ;  and  an  act  done,  or
language  employed,  under  such  temporary  discomposure,  is  not  a
just  criterion  of  the  general  tone  and  strength  of  a  man's  mind.
As  to  the  accident  itself,  we  may  suppose,  whatever  might  have
been  its  precise  nature,  that  it  greatly  distressed  him,  and,  still
further,  that  its  shock  may  have  originated  the  train  of  nervous
derangements,  which  afflicted  him,  more  or  less,  for  two  years
afterward.  Yet,  during  this  very  period  of  ill  health,  we  find  him
putting  forth  his  highest  powers.  In  1692,  he  prepared  for,  and
transmitted  to  Dr.  Wallis  the  first  proposition  of  the  Treatise  on
Quadratures,  with  examples  of  it  in  first,  second  and  third  flux
ions.  He  investigated,  in  the  same  year,  the  subject  of  haloes  ;
making  and  recording  numerous  and  important  observations  rela
tive  thereto.  Those  profound  and  beautiful  Letters  to  Dr.  Bentley
were  written  at  the  close  of  this  and  the  beginning  of  the  next
year.  In  October,  1693,  Locke,  who  was  then  about  publishing  a
second  edition  of  his  work  on  the  Human  Understanding,  request
ed  Newton  to  reconsider  his  opinions  on  innate  ideas.  And  in
1694,  he  was  zealously  occupied  in  perfecting  his  lunar  theory  ;
visiting  Flamstead,  at  the  Royal  Observatory  of  Greenwich,  in
September,  and  obtaining  a  series  of  lunar  observations  ;  and
14   LIFE    OF    SIR    ISAAC    NEWTON.
commencing,  in  October,  a  correspondence  with  that  distinguished
practical  Astronomer,  which  continued  till  1698.
We  now  arrive  at  the  period  when  Newton  permanently  with
drew  from  the  seclusion  of  a  collegiate,  and  entered  upon  a  more
active  and  public  life.  He  was  appointed  Warden  of  the  Mint,
in  1695,  through  the  influence  of  Charles  Montague,  Chancellor
of  the  Exchequer,  and  afterward  Earl  of  Halifax.  The  current
roin  of  the  nation  had  been  adulterated  and  debased,  and  Mon
tague  undertook  a  re-coinage.  Our  author's  mathematical  and
chemical  knowledge  proved  eminently  useful  in  accomplishing
this  difficult  and  most  salutary  reform.  In  1699,  he  was  pro
moted  to  the  Mastership  of  the  Mint — an  office  worth  twelve  or
fifteen  hundred  pounds  per  annum,  and  which  he  held  during  the
remainder  of  his  life.  He  wrote,  in  this  capacity,  an  official  Re
port  on  the  Coinage,  which  has  been  published  ;  he  also  prepared
a  Table  of  Assays  of  Foreign  Coins,  which  was  printed  at  the
end  of  Dr.  Arbuthnot's  Tables  of  Ancient  Coins,  Weights,  and
Measures,  in  1727.
Newton  retained  his  Professorship  at  Cambridge  till  1703.
But  he  had,  on  receiving  the  appointment  of  Master  of  the  Mint,
in  1699,  made  Mr.  Whiston  his  deputy,  with  all  the  emoluments
of  the  office  ;  and,  on  finally  resigning,  procured  his  nomination  to
the  vacant  Chair.
In  January  1697,  John  Bernouilli  proposed  to  the  most  distin
guished  mathematicians  of  Europe  two  problems  for  solution.
Leibnitz,  admiring  the  beauty  of  one  of  them,  requested  the  time
for  solving  it  to  be  extended  to  twelve  months — twice  the  period
originally  named.  The  delay  was  readily  granted.  Newton,  how
ever,  sent  in,  the  day  after  he  received  the  problems,  a  solution  of
them  to  the  President  of  the  Royal  Society.  Bernouilli  obtained
solutions  from  Newton,  Leibinitz  and  the  Marquis  De  L'Hopital  ;
but  Newton's  though  anonymous,  he  immediately  recognised
" tanquam  ungue  leonem"  as  the  lion  is  known  by  his  claw.
We  may  mention  here  the  famous  problem  of  the  trajectories
proposed  by  Leibnitz,  in  1716,  for  the  purpose  of  "feeling  the
pulse  of  the  English  Analysts."  Newton  received  the  problem
about  five  o'clock  in  the  afternoon,  as  he  was  returning  from  the
LIFE    OF    SIR    ISAAC    NEWTON.   45
Mint  ;  and  though  it  was  extremely  difficult  and  he  himself  much
fatigued,  yet  he  completed  its  solution,  the  same  evening  before
he  went  to  bed.
The  history  of  these  problems  affords,  by  direct  comparison,  a
striking  illustration  of  Newton's  vast  superiority  of  mind.  That
amazing  concentration  and  grasp  of  intellect,  of  which  we  have
spoken,  enabled  him  to  master  speedily,  and,  as  it  were,  by  a
single  effort,  those  things,  for  the  achievement  of  which,  the  many
would  essay  utterly  in  vain,  and  the  very,  very  few  attain  only
after  long  and  renewed  striving.  And  yet,  with  a  modesty  as
unparalleled  as  his  power,  he  attributed  his  successes,  not  to  any
extraordinary  sagacity,  but  solely  to  industry  and  patient  thought.
Mr-  kept  the  subject  of  consideration  constantly  before  him,  and
waited  till  the  first  dawning  opened  gradually  into  a  full  and
clear  light ;  never  quitting,  if  possible,  the  mental  process  till  the
object  of  it  were  wholly  gained.  He  never  allowed  this  habit  of
meditation  to  appear  in  his  intercourse  with  society ;  but  in  the
privacy  of  his  own  chamber,  or  in  the  midst  of  his  own  family,  he
gave  himself  up  to  the  deepest  abstraction.  Occupied  with  some
interesting  investigation,  he  would  often  sit  down  on  his  bedside,
after  he  rose,  and  remain  there,  for  hours,  partially  dressed.
Meal-time  would  frequently  come  and  pass  unheeded  ;  so  that,
unless  urgently  reminded,  he  would  neglect  to  take  the  re
quisite  quantity  of  nourishment.  But  notwithstanding  his  anx
iety  to  be  left  undisturbed,  he  would,  when  occasion  required,
turn  aside  his  thoughts,  though  bent  upon  the  most  intricate  re
search,  and  then,  when  leisure  served,  again  direct  them  to  the
very  point  where  they  ceased  to  act  :  and  this  he  seemed  to  ac
complish  not  so  much  by  the  force  of  his  memory,  as  by  the  force
of  his  inventive  faculty,  before  the  vigorous  intensity  of  which,  no
subject,  however  abstruse,  remained  long  unexplored.
Me  was  elected  a  member  of  the  Royal  Academy  of  Sciences
at  Paris,  in  1699,  when  that  distinguished  Body  were  empowered,
by  a  new  charter,  to  admit  a  small  number  of  foreign  associates.
In  1700,  he  communicated  to  Dr.  Halley  a  description  of  his  re
flecting  instrument  for  observing  the  moon's  distance  from  the
fixed  stars.  This  description  was  published  in  the  Philosophical
46   LIFE    OF    SIR    ISAAC    NEWTON,
Transactions,  in  1742.  The  instrument  was  the  same  as  that
produced  by  Mr.  Hadley,  in  1731,  and  which,  under  the  name  of
Hadley's  Quadrant,  has  been  of  so  great  use  in  navigation.  On
the  assembling  of  the  new  Parliament,  in  1701,  Newton  was  re-
elected  one  of  the  members  for  the  University  of  Cambridge.  In
1703,  he  was  chosen  President  of  the  Royal  Society  of  London,
to  which  office  he  was  annually  re-elected  till  the  period  of  his
decease — about  twenty-five  years  afterward.
Our  author  unquestionably  devoted  more  labour  to,  and,  in
many  respects,  took  a  greater  pride  in  his  Optical,  than  his  other
discoveries.  This  science  he  had  placed  on  a  new  and  indestruc
tible  basis  ;  and  he  wished  not  only  to  build,  but  to  perfect  the
costly  and  glowing  structure.  He  had  communicated,  before  the
publication  of  the  PRINCIPIA,  his  most  important  researches  on
light  to  the  Royal  Society,  in  detached  papers  which  were  inserted
in  successive  numbers  of  the  Transactions  ;  but  he  did  not  pub
lish  a  connected  view  of  these  labours  till  1704,  when  they  appeared
under  the  title  of  OPTICS  :  OR,  A  TREATISE  ON  THE  REFLEXIONS,
REFRACTIONS,  INFLEXIONS  AND  COLOURS  OF  LIGHT.  To  this,
but  to  no  subsequent  edition,  were  added  two  Mathematical  Trea
tises,  entitled,  TRACTATUS  DUO  DE  SPECIEBUS  ET  MAGNITUDINE
FIGURARUM  cuRViLiNEARUM  ;  the  one  bearing  the  title  TRACTATUS
DE  QUADRATURA  CuRVARUM  ;  and  the  other,  that  of  ENUMERATIO
LINEARUM  TERTII  ORDiNis.  The  publication  of  these  Mathemati
cal  Treatises  was  made  necessary  in  consequence  of  plagiarisms
from  the  manuscripts  of  them  loaned  by  the  author  to  his  friends.
Dr.  Samuel  Clarke  published  a  Latin  translation  of  the  Optics,  in
in  1706  ;  whereupon  he  was  presented  by  Newton,  as  a  mark  of
his  grateful  approbation,  with  five  hundred  pounds,  or  one  hun
dred  pounds  for  each  of  his  children.  The  work  was  afterward
translated  into  French.  It  had  a  remarkably  wide  circulation,
and  appeared,  in  several  successive  editions,  both  in  England  and
on  the  Continent.  There  is  displayed,  particularly  on  this  Opti
cal  Treatise,  the  author's  talent  for  simplifying  and  communica
ting  the  profoundest  speculations.  It  is  a  faculty  rarely  united  to
that  of  the  highest  invention.  Newton  possessed  both  ;  and  thus
that  mental  perfectness  which  enabled  him  to  create,  to  combine,
LIFE    OF    SIR    ISAAC    NEWTON.   47
and  to  teach,  and  so  render  himself,  not  the  "ornament"  cnly;
but  inconceivably  more,  the  pre-eminent  benefactor  of  his  species.
The  honour  of  knighthood  v/as  conferred  on  our  author  in
1705.  Soon  afterward,  he  was  a  candidate  again  for  the  Repre
sentation  of  the  University,  but  was  defeated  by  a  large  majority.
It  is  thought  that  a  more  pliant  man  was  preferred  by  both  min
isters  and  electors.  Newton  was  always  remarkable  for  simplicity
of  dress,  and  his  only  known  departure  from  it  was  on  this  oc
casion,  when  he  is  said  to  have  appeared  in  a  suit  of  laced
clothes.
The  Algebraical  Lectures  which  he  had,  Juring  nine  years,
delivered  at  Cambridge,  were  published  by  Whiston,  in  1707,
under  the  title  of  ARITHMETICS  UNIVERSALIS,  SINE  DE  COMPOSI
TIONS  ET  RESOLUTIONS  ARITHMETICA  LIBER.  This  publication
is  said  to  have  been  a  breach  of  confidence  on  Whiston's  part.  Mr.
Ralphson,  not  long  afterward,  translated  the  work  into  English ;
and  a  second  edition  of  it,  with  improvements  by  the  author,  was
issued  at  London,  1712,  by  Dr.  Machin.  Subsequent  editions,
both  in  English  and  Latin,  with  commentaries,  have  been  published.
In  June,  1709,  Newton  intrusted  the  superintendence  of  a
second  edition  of  the  PRINCIPIA  to  Roger  Cotes,  Plumian  Pro
fessor  of  Astronomy  at  Cambridge.  The  first  edition  had  been
sold  off  for  some  time.  Copies  of  the  work  had  become  very
rare,  and  could  only  be  obtained  at  several  times  their  original
cost.  A  great  number  of  letters  passed  oetween  the  author  and
Mr.  Cotes  during  the  preparation  of  the  edition,  which  finally
appeared  in  May,  1713.  It  had  many  alterations  and  improve
ments,  and  was  accompanied  by  an  admirable  Preface  from  the
pen  of  Cotes.
Our  author's  early  Treatise,  entitled,  ANALYSIS  PER  EQUATIONES
NUMERO  TERMINORUM  INFINITAS,  as  well  as  a  small  Tract,  Gearing
the  title  of  METHODUS  DIFFERENTIALS,  was  published,  witn  nis
consent,  in  1711.  The'  former  of  these,  and  the  Treatise  De
Quadratura  Curvarum,  translated  into  Englisn,  witn  a  .arge  com
mentary,  appeared  in  1745.  His  work,  entitled.  ARTIS  ANA
LYTICS  SPECIMINA,  VEL  GEOMETRIA  ANALYTICA,  was  iirs;  given
to  the  world  in  the  edition  of  Dr.  Horsley,  1779.
48   LIFE    OF    SIR    ISAAC    NEWTON.
It  is  a  notable  fact,  in  Newton's  history,  that  he  never  volun*
tarily  published  any  one  of  his  purely  mathematical  writings
The  cause  of  this  unwillingness  in  some,  and,  in  other  instances,
of  his  indifference,  or,  at  least,  want  of  solicitude  to  put  forth  his
works  may  be  confidently  sought  for  in  his  repugnance  to  every
thing  like  contest  or  dispute.  But,  going  deeper  than  this  aver
sion,  we  find,  underlying  his  whole  character  and  running  parallel
with  all  his  discoveries,  that  extraordinary  humility  which  always
preserved  him  in  a  position  so  relatively  just  to  the  behests  of
time  and  eternity,  that  the  infinite  value  of  truth,  and  the  utter
worthlessness  of  fame,  were  alike  constantly  present  to  him.
Judging  of  his  course,  however,  in  its  more  temporary  aspect,  as
bearing  upon  his  immediate  quiet,  it  seemed  the  most  unfortunate.
For  an  early  publication,  especially  in  the  case  of  his  Method  of
Fluxions,  would  have  anticipated  all  rivalry,  and  secured  him
from  the  contentious  claims  of  Leibnitz.  Still  each  one  will  solve
the  problem  of  his  existence  in  his  own  way,  and,  with  a  manlike
Newton,  his  own,  as  we  conceive,  could  be  no  other  than  the  best
way.  The  conduct  of  Leibnitz  in  this  affair  is  quite  irreconcilable
with  the  stature  and  strength  of  the  man  ;  giant-like,  and  doing
nobly,  in  many  ways,  a  giant's  work,  yet  cringing  himself  into  the
dimensions  and  performances  of  a  common  calumniator.  Opening
in  1699,  the  discussion  in  question  continued  till  the  close  of
Leibnitz's  life,  in  1716.  We  give  the  summary  of  the  case  as
contained  in  the  Report  of  the  Committee  of  the  Royal  Society,
the  deliberately  weighed  opinion  of  which  has  been  adopted  as  an
authoritative  decision  in  all  countries.
"  We  have  consulted  the  letters  and  letter  books  in  the  custody
of  the  Royal  Society,  and  those  found  among  the  papers  of  Mr.
John  Collins,  dated  between  the  years  1669  and  1677,  inclusive  ;
and  showed  them  to  such  as  knew  and  avouched  the  hands  of  Mr.
Barrow,  Mr.  Collins,  Mr.  Oldenburg,  and  Mr.  Leibnitz  ;  and
compared  those  of  Mr.  Gregory  with  one  another,  and  with  copies
of  some  of  them  taken  in  the  hand  of  Mr.  Collins  ;  and  have
extracted  from  them  what  relates  to  the  matter  referred  to  us  :
all  which  extracts,  herewith  delivered  to  you,  we  believe  to  be
genuine  and  authentic.  And  by  these  letters  and  papers  wf
find:  —
LIFE    OF    SIR    ISAAC    NEWTON.   49
"  I.  Mr.  Leibnitz  was  in  London  in  the  beginning  of  the  year
1673  ;  and  went  thence  in  or  about  March,  to  Paris,  where  he
kept  a  correspondence  with  Mr.  Collins,  by  means  of  Mr.  Olden
burg,  till  about  September,  1676,  and  then  returned,  by  London
and  Amsterdam,  to  Hanover:  and  that  Mr.  Collins  was  very  free
in  communicating  to  able  mathematicians  what  he  had  received
from  Mr,  Newton  and  Mr.  Gregory.
"  II.  That  when  Mr.  Leibnitz  was  the  first  time  in  London,
he  contended  for  the  invention  of  another  differential  method,
properly  so  called  ;  and,  notwithstanding  he  was  shown  by  Dr.
Pell  that  it  was  Newton?s  method,  persisted  in  maintaining  it  to
be  his  own  invention,  by  reason  that  he  had  found  it  by  himself
without  knowing  what  Newton  had  done  before,  and  had  much
improved  it.  And  we  find  no  mention  of  his  having  any  other
differential  method  than  Newton's  before  his  letter  of  the  21st  of
June,  1677,  which  was  a  year  after  a  copy  of  Mr.  Newton's  letter
of  the  10th  of  December,  1672,  had  been  sent  to  Paris  to  be
communicated  to  him  ;  and  above  four  years  after  Mr.  Collins
began  to  communicate  that  letter  to  his  correspondents  ;  in  which
letter  the  method  of  fluxions  was  sufficiently  described  to  any
intelligent  person.
"III.  That  by  Mr.  Newton's  letter,  of  the  13th  of  June,  1676
it  appears  that  he  had  the  method  of  fluxions  above  five  years
before  the  writing  of  that  letter.  And  by  his  Analysis  per  ^Equa-
tiones  numero  Terminorum  Infmitas,  communicated  by  Dr.  Barrow
to  Mr.  Collins,  in  July,  1669,  we  find  that  he  had  invented  the
method  before  that  time.
"IV.  That  the  differential  method  is  one  and  the  same  with
the  method  of  fluxions,  excepting  the  name  and  mode  of  notation  ;
Mr.  Leibnitz  calling  those  quantities  differences  which  Mr.  Newton
calls  moments,  or  fluxions  ;  and  marking  them  with  a  letter  d — a
mark  not  used  by  Mr.  Newton.
"  And,  therefore,  we  take  the  proper  question  to  be,  not  who
invented  this  or  that  method,  but,  who  was  the  first  inventor  of
the  method  ?  And  we  believe  that  those  who  have  reputed  Mr.
Leibnitz  the  first  inventor  knew  little  or  nothing  of  his  correspond
ence  with  Mr.  Collins  and  Mr.  Oldenburg  long  before,  nor  of  Mr.
50   LIFE    OP    SIR    ISAAC    NEWTON.
Newton's  hiving  that   method   above   fifteen  years  before   Mr
Leibnitz  began  to  publish  it  in  the  Acta  Eruditorum  of  Leipsic.
"  For  which  reason  we  reckon  Mr.  Newton  the  first  inventor  ;
and  are  of  opinion  that  Mr.  Keill,  in  asserting  the  same,  has  been
no  ways  injurious  to  Mr.  Leibnitz.  And  we  submit  to  the  judg
ment  of  the  Society,  whether  the  extract  and  papers,  now  pre
sented  to  you,  together  with  what  is  extant,  to  the  same  pur
pose,  in  Dr.  Wallis's  third  volume,  may  not  deserve  to  be  made
public." This  Report,  with  the  collection  of  letters  and  manuscripts,
under  the  title  of  COMMERCIUM  EPISTOLICUM  D.  JOHANNIS  COLLINS
ET     ALIORUM     DE    ANALYSI    PROMOTA     JuSSU     SoCIETATIS     REGIES
EDITUM,  appeared  accordingly  in  the  early  part  of  1713.  Its
publication  seemed  to  infuse  additional  bitterness  into  the  feelings
of  Leibnitz,  who  descended  to  unfounded  charges  and  empty
threats.  He  had  been  privy  counsellor  to  the  Elector  of  Han
over,  before  that  prince  was  elevated  to  the  British  throne  ;  and
in  his  correspondence,  in  1715  and  1716,  with  the  Abbe  Conti,
then  at  the  court  of  George  L,  and  with  Caroline,  Princess  of
Wales,  he  attacked  the  doctrines  of  the  PRINCIPIA,  and  indirectly
its  author,  in  a  manner  very  discreditable  to  himself,  both  as  a
learned  and  as  an  honourable  man.  His  assaults,  however,  were
triumphantly  met;  and,  to  the  complete  overthrow  of  his  rival
pretensions,  Newton  was  induced  to  give  the  finishing  blow.  The
verdict  is  universal  and  irreversible  that  the  English  preceded
the  German  philosopher,  by  at  least  ten  years,  in  the  invention
of  fluxions.  Newton  could  not  have  borrowed  from  Leibnitz  ;
but  Leibnitz  might  have  borrowed  from  Newton.  A  new  edition
of  the  Commercium  Epistolicum  was  published  in  1722-5  (?)  ;  but
neither  in  this,  nor  in  the  former  edition,  did  our  author  take  any
part.  The  disciples,  enthusiastic,  capable  and  ready,  effectually
shielded,  with  the  buckler  of  Truth,  the  character  of  the  Master,
whose  own  conduct  throughout  was  replete  with  delicacy,  dignity
and  justice.  He  kept  aloof  from  the  controversy — in  which  Dr.
Keill  stood  forth  as  the  chief  representative  of  the  Newtonian
side — till  the  very  last,  when,  for  the  satisfaction  of  the  King,
George  L.  rather  than  for  his  own,  he  consented  to  put  forth  his
LIFE    OF    SI|        L^.-vJ    NEWTON.   5i
hand  and  firmly  secure  his  rights  upon  a  certain  and  impregnable,
basis.
A  petition  to  have  inventions  for  promoting  the  discovery  of  the
longitude  at  sea,  suitably  rewarded,  was  presented  to  the  House
of  Commons,  in  1714.  A  committee,  having  been  appointed  to
investigate  the  subject,  called  upon  Newton  and  others  for  their
opinions.  That  of  our  author  was  given  in  writing,  A  report,
favourable  to  the  desired  measure,  was  then  taken  up,  and  a  bill
for  its  adoption  subsequently  passed.
On  the  ascension  of  George  I.,  in  1714,  Newton  became  an
object  of  profound  interest  at  court.  His  position  under  govern
ment,  his  surpassing  fame,  his  spotless  character,  and.  above  all,
his  deep  and  consistent  piety,  attracted  the  reverent  regard  of  the
Princess  of  Wales,  afterward  queen -consort  to  George  II.  She
was  a  woman  of  a  highly  cultivated  mind,  and  derived  the  greatest
pleasure  from  conversing  with  Newton  and  corresponding  with
Leibnitz.  One  day,  in  conversation  with  her,  our  author  men
tioned  and  explained  a  new  system  of  chronology,  which  he  had
composed  at  Cambridge,  where  he  had  been  in  the  habit  "  of
refreshing  himself  with  history  and  chronology,  when  he  wac
weary  with  other  studies."  Subsequently,  in  the  year  1718,  she
requested  a  copy  of  this  interesting  and  ingenious  work  Newton,
accordingly,  drew  up  an  abstract  of  the  system  from  the  separate
papers  in  which  it  existed,  and  gave  it  to  her  on  condition  that  it
should  riot  be  communicated  to  any  other  person.  Sometime
afterward  she  requested  that  the  Abbe  Conti  might  be  allowed
to  have  a  copy  of  it  The  author  consented:  and  the  abbe
received  a  copy  of  the  manuscript,  under  the  like  injunction  and
promise  of  secrecy.  This  manuscript  bore  the  title  of  "  A  short
Chronicle,  from  the  First  Memory  of  Tilings  in  Europe,  to  the
Conquest  of  Persia,  by  Alexander  the  Great."
After  Newton  took  up  his  residence  in  London,  he  lived  in  a
style  suited  to  his  elevated  position  and  rank.  He  kept  his  car
riage,  with  an  establishment  of  three  male  and  three  female  serv
ants.  But  to  everything  like  vain  show  and  luxury  he  was  utterly
averse.  His  household  affairs,  for  the  last  twenty  years  of  his
life,  were  under  the  charge  of  his  niece,  Mrs.  Catherine  Barton,
52   LIFE    OF    SIR    ISAAC    NEWTON.
wife  and  widow  of  Colonel  Barton — a  woman  of  great  beauty  and
accomplishment — and  subsequently  married  to  John  Conduit,  Esq.
At  home  Newton  was  distinguished  by  that  dignified  and  gentle
hospitality  which  springs  alone  from  true  nobleness.  On  all  pro
per  occasions,  he  gave  splendid  entertainments,  though  without
ostentation.  In  society,  whether  of  the  palace  or  the  cottage,
his  manner  was  self-possessed  and  urbane  ;  his  look  benign  and
affable  ;  his  speech  candid  and  modest  ;  his  whole  air  undisturb
edly  serene.  He  had  none  of  what  are  usually  called  the  singu
larities  of  genius  ;  suiting  himself  easily  to  every  company —
except  that  of  the  vicious  and  wicked  ;  and  speaking  of  himself
and  others,  naturally,  so  as  never  even  to  be  suspected  of  vanity.
There  was  in  him,  if  we  may  be  allowed  the  expression,  a  WHOLE
NESS  of  nature,  which  did  not  admit  of  such  imperfections  and
weakness — the  circle  was  too  perfect,  the  law  too  constant,  and
the  disturbing  forces  too  slight  to  suffer  scarcely  any  of  those
eccentricities  which  so  interrupt  and  mar  the  movements  of  many
bright  spirits,  rendering  their  course  through  the  world  more  like
that  of  the  blazing  meteor  than  that  of  the  light  and  life-impart
ing  sun.  In  brief,  the  words  GREATNESS  and  GOODNESS  could
not,  humanly  speaking,  be  more  fitly  employed  than  when  applied
as  the  pre-eminent  characteristics  of  this  pure,  meek  and  vene
rable  sage.
In  the  eightieth  year  of  his  age,  Newton  was  seized  with
symptoms  of  stone  in  the  bladder.  His  disease  was  pronounced
incurable.  He  succeeded,  however,  by  means  of  a  strict  regimen,
and  other  precautions,  in  alleviating  his  complaint,  and  procuring
long  intervals  of  ease.  His  diet,  always  frugai,  was  now  extremely
temperate,  consisting  chiefly  of  broth,  vegetables,  and  fruit,  with,
now  and  then,  a  little  butcher  meat.  He  gave  up  the  use  of  his
carriage,  and  employed,  in  its  stead,  when  he  went  out,  a  chair.
All  invitations  to  dinner  were  declined  ;  and  only  small  parties
were  received,  occasionally,  at  his  own  house.
In  1724  he  wrote  to  the  Lord  Provost  of  Edinburgh,  offering
to  contribute  twenty  pounds  yearly  toward  the  salary  of  Mr.
Maclaurin,  provided  he  accepted  the  assistant  Professorship  of
Mathematics  in  the  University  of  that  place.  Not  only  in  the
LIFE    OP    SIR    ISAAC    NEWTON.   53
cause  of  ingenuity  and  learning,  but  in  that  of  religion —  in  relieving
the  poor  and  .assisting  his  relations,  Newton  annually  expended
large  sums.  He  was  generous  and  charitable  almost  to  a  fault.
Those,  he  would  often  remark,  who  gave  away  nothing  till  they
died,  never  gave  at  all.  His  wealth  had  become  considerable  by
a  prudent  economy  ;  but  he  regarded  money  in  no  other  light
than  as  one  of  the  means  wherewith  he  had  been  intrusted  to  do
good,  and  he  faithfully  employed  it  accordingly.
He  experienced,  in  spite  of  all  his  precautionary  measures,  a
return  of  his  complaint  in  the  month  of  August,  of  the  same  year,
1 724,  when  he  passed  a  stone  the  size  of  pea  ;  it  came  from  him
in  two  pieces,  the  one  at  the  distance  of  two  day.s  from  the  other.
Tolerable  good  health  then  followed  for  some  months.  In  Janu
ary,  1725,  however,  he  was  taken  with  a  violent  cough  and  inflam
mation  of  the  lungs.  In  consequence  of  this  attack,  he  was  pre
vailed  upon  to  remove  to  Kensington,  where  his  health  greatly
improved.  In  February  following,  he  was  attacked  in  both  feet
with  the  gout,  of  the  approach  of  which  he  had  received,  a  few
years  before,  a  slight  warning,  and  the  presence  of  which  now
produced  a  very  beneficial  change  in  his  general  health.  Mr.
Conduit,  his  nephew,  has  recorded  a  curious  conversation  which
took  place,  at  or  near  this  time,  between  himself  and  Sir  Isaac.
"I  was,  on  Sunday  night,  the  7th  March,  1724-5,  at  Kensing
ton,  with  Sir  Isaac  Newton,  in  his  lodgings,  just  after  he  was  out
of  a  fit  of  the  gout,  which  he  had  had  in  both  of  his  feet,  for  the
first  time,  in  the  eighty-third  year  of  his  age.  He  was  better  after
it,  and  his  head  clearer  and  memory  stronger  than  I  had  known
them  for  some  time.  He  then  repeated  to  me,  by  way  of  dis
course,  very  distinctly,  though  rather  in  answer  to  my  queries,
than  in  one  continued  narration,  what  he  had  often  hinted  to  me
before,  viz. :  that  it  was  his  conjecture  (he  would  affirm  nothing)
that  there  was  a  sort  of  revolution  in  the  heavenly  bodies  ;  that
the  vapours  and  light,  emitted  by  the  sun,  which  had  their  sedi
ment,  as  water  and  other  matter,  had  gathered  themselves,  by
degrees,  into  a  body,  and  attracted  more  matter  from  the  planets,
and  at  last  made  a  secondary  planet  (viz. :  one  of  those  that  go
round  another  planet),  and  then,  by  gathering  to  them,  and
54   LIFE    OF    SIR    ISAAC    NEWTON.
attracting  more  matter,  became  a  primary  planet ;  and  then,  bf
increasing  still,  became  a  comet,  which,  after  certain  revolutions,
by  coming  nearer  and  nearer  to  the  sun,  had  all  its  volatile  parts
condensed,  and  became  a  matter  tit  to  recruit  and  replenish  the
sun  (which  must  waste  by  the  constant  heat  and  light  it  emitted),
as  a  faggot  would  this  fire  if  put  into  it  (we  were  sitting  by  a
wood  fire),  and  that  that  would  probably  be  the  effect  of  the
comet  of  1680,  sooner  or  later  ;  for,  by  the  observations  made
upon  it,  it  appeared,  before  it  came  near  the  sun,  with  a  tail  only
two  or  three  degrees  long  ;  but,  by  the  heat  it  contracted,  in  going
so  near  the  sun,  it  seemed  to  have  a  tail  of  thirty  or  forty  degrees
when  it  went  frpm  it ;  that  he  could  not  say  when  this  comet
would  drop  into  the  sun  ;  it  might  perhaps  have  five  or  six  revo
lutions  more  first,  but  whenever  it  did  it  would  so  much  increase
the  heat  of  the  sun  that  this  earth  would  be  burned,  and  no  ani
mals  in  it  could  live.  That  he  took  the  three  phenomena,  seen
by  Hipparchus,  Tycho  Brahe,  and  Kepler's  disciples,  to  have  been
of  this  kind,  for  he  could  not  other

---

which  the  all-wise  God  perceives  and  understands  all  things.  He  is  ut
terly  void  of  all  body  and  bodily  figure,  and  can  therefore  neither  l^e  seen,
nor  heard,  nor  touched  ;  nor  ought  he  to  be  worshipped  under  the  repre
sentation  of  any  corporeal  thing.  We  have  ideas  of  his  attributes,  but
what  the  real  substance  of  any  thing  is  we  know  not.  In  bodies,  we  see
only  their  figures  and  colours,  we  hear  only  the  sounds,  we  touch  only  their
outward  surfaces,  we  smell  only  the  smells,  and  taste  the  savours  ;  but  their
inward  substances  are  not  to  be  known  either  by  our  senses,  or  by  any
reflex  act  of  our  minds  :  much  less,  then,  have  we  any  idea  of  the  sub
stance  of  God.  We  know  him  only  by  his  most  wise  and  excellent  con
trivances  of  things,  and  final  causes  ;  we  admire  him  for  his  perfections  ;
but  we  reverence  and  adore  him  on  account  of  his  dominion  :  for  we  adore
him  as  his  servants  ;  and  a  god  without  dominion,  providence,  and  final
causes,  is  nothing  else  but  Fate  and  Nature.  Blind  metaphysical  neces
sity,  which  is  certainly  the  same  always  and  every  where,  could  produce
no  variety  of  things.  All  that  diversity  of  natural  things  which  we  find
suited  to  different  times  and  places  could  arise  from  nothing  but  the  ideas
and  will  of  a  Being  necessarily  existing.  But,  by  way  of  allegory,  God
is  said  to  see,  to  speak,  to  laugh,  to  love,  to  hate,  to  desire,  to  give,  to  re
ceive,  to  rejoice,  to  be  angry,  to  fight,  to  frame,  to  work,  to  build  ;  for  all
our  notions  of  God  are  taken  from  the  ways  of  mankind  by  a  certain
similitude,  which,  though  not  perfect,  has  some  likeness,  however.  And
thus  much  concerning  God  ;  to  discourse  of  whom  from  the  appearances
of  things,  does  certainly  belong  to  Natural  Philosophy.
Hitherto  we  have  explained  the  phenomena  of  the  heavens  and  of  our
sea  by  the  power  of  gravity,  but  have  not  yet  assigned  the  cause  of  this
power.  This  is  certain,  that  it  must  proceed  from  a  cause  that  penetrates
'to  the  very  centres  of  the  sun  and  planets,  without  suffering  the  least
diminution  of  its  force;  that  operates  not  according  to  the  quantity  of
the  surfaces  of  the  particles  upon  which  it  acts  (as  mechanical  causes  use
to  do),  but  according  to  the  quantity  of  the  solid  matter  which  they  con
tain,,  and  propagates  its  virtue  on  all  sides  to  immense  distances,  decreasing
always  in  the  duplicate  proportion  of  the  distances.  Gravitation  towards
the  sun  is  made  up  out  of  the  gravitations  towards  the  several  particles
of  which  the  body  of  the  sun  is  composed  ;  and  in  receding  from  the  sun
decreases  accurately  in  the  duplicate  proportion  of  the  distances  MS  far  as
the  orb  of  Saturn,  as  evidently  appears  from  the  quiescence  of  the  aphe
lions  of  the  planets  ;  nay,  and  even  to  the  remotest  aphelions  of  the  comets,
if  those  aphelions  are  also  quiescent.  But  hitherto  I  have  not  been  able
to  discover  the  cause  of  those  properties  of  gravity  from  phenomena,  and
I  frame  no  hypotheses  ;  for  whatever  is  not  deduced  from  the  phenomena
is  to  be  called  an  hypothesis  ;  and  hypotheses,  whether  metaphysical  01
physical,  whether  of  occult  qualities  or  mechanical,  have  no  place  in  ex
BOOK    III.]   OF    NATURAL    PHILOSOPHY.   507
perimental  philosophy.  In  this  philosophy  particular  propositions  are
inferred  from  the  phenomena,  and  afterwards  rendered  general  by  induc
tion.  Thus  it  was  that  the  impenetrability,  the  mobility,  and  the  impul
sive  force  of  bodies,  and  the  laws  of  motion  and  of  gravitation,  were
discovered.  And  to  us  it  is  enough  that  gravity  does  really  exist,  and  act
according  to  the  laws  which  we  have  explained,  and  abundantly  serves  to
account  for  all  the  motions  of  the  celestial  bodies,  and  of  our  sea.
And  now  we  might  add  something  concerning  a  certain  most  subtle
Spirit  which  pervades  and  lies  hid  in  all  gross  bodies  ;  by  the  force  and
action  of  which  Spirit  the  particles  of  bodies  mutually  attract  one  another
at  near  distances,  and  cohere,  if  contiguous  ;  and  electric  bodies  operate  to
greater  distances,  as  well  repelling  as  attracting  the  neighbouring  corpus
cles  ;  and  light  is  emitted,  reflected,  refracted,  inflected,  and  heats  bodies  ;
and  all  sensation  is  excited,  and  the  members  of  animal  bodies  move  at  the
command  of  the  will,  namely,  by  the  vibrations  of  this  Spirit,  mutually
propagated  along  the  solid  filaments  of  the  nerves,  from  the  outward  or
gans  of  sense  to  the  brain,  and  from  the  brain  into  the  muscles.  But  these
are  things  that  cannot  be  explained  in  few  words,  nor  are  we  furnished
with  that  sufficiency  of  experiments  which  is  required  to  an  accurate  deter
mination  and  demonstration  of  the  laws  by  which  this  electric  and  elastic
Spirit  operates.
END    OP    THE    MATHEMATICAL    P&LNCIPLE8.
THE  SYSTEM  OF  THE  WORLD,
THF
SYSTEM    OF    THE    WORLD
It.  was  the  ancient  opinion  of  not  a  few,  in  the  earliest  ages  of  philoso
phy,  that  the  fixed  stars  stood  immoveable  in  the  highest  parts  of  the  world  ;
that,  under  the  fixed  stars  the  planets  were  carried  about  the  sun  ;  that  the
earth,  us  one  of  the  planets,  described  an  annual  course  about  the  sun,  while
by  a  diurnal  motion  it  was  in  the  mean  time  revolved  about  its  own  axis;
and  that  the  sun,  as  the  common  fire  which  served  to  warm  the  whole,  was
fixed  in  the  centre  of  the  universe.
This  was  the  philosophy  taught  of  old  by  Philolans,  Aristarchus  of
Santos,  Plato  in  his  riper  years,  and  the  whole  sect  of  the  Pythagoreans  ;
and  this  was  the  judgment  of  Anaximander,  more  ancient  than  any  of
them  ;  and  of  that  wise  Iring  of  the  Rovnans,  Numa  Pompilins,  who,  as
a  symbol  of  the  figure  of  the  world  with  the  sun  in  the  centre,  erected  a
temple  in  honour  of  Vesta,  of  .%  i^und  form,  and  ordained  perpetual  fire  to
be  kept  in  the  middle  of  it.
The  Egyptians  were  early  observers  of  the  heavens  ;  and  from  them.,
probably,  this  philosophy  was  spread  abroad  among  other  nations  ;  for  from
them  it  was,  and  the  nations  about  them,  that  the  Greeks,  a  people  of
themselves  more  addicted  to  the  study  of  philology  than  of  nature,  derived
their  first,  as  well  as  soundest,  notions  of  philosophy  ;  and  in  the  vestal
ceremonies  we  may  yet  trace  the  ancient  spirit  of  the  Egyptians  ;  for  it
was  their  way  to  deliver  their  mysteries,  that  is,  their  philosophy  of  things
above  the  vulgar  way  of  thinking,  under  the  veil  of  religious  rites  and
hieroglyphic  symbols.
It  is  not  to  be  denied  but  that  Anaxa&oras,  Democritus,  and  others,
did  now  and  then  start  up,  who  would  have  it  that  the  earth  possessed  the
centre  of  the  world,  and  that  the  stars  of  all  sorts  were  revolved  towards
the  west  about  the  earth  quiescent  in  tk^  centre,  some  at  a  swifter,  others
at  a  slower  rate.
However,  it  was  agreed  on  both  sides  that  the  motions  of  the  celestial
bodies  were  performed  in  spaces  altogether  free  and  void  of  resistance.  The
whim  of  solid  orbs  was  of  a  later  date,  introduced  by  Eudoxus,  Calippus,
and  Aristotle;  when  the  ancient  philosophy  began  to  decline,  and  to  give
nlace  to  the  new  prevailing  fictions  of  the  Greeks.
But.  above  all  things,  the  phenomena  of  comets  can  by  no  means  consist
612   THE    SYSTEM    OF    THE   WORLD.
with  the  notion  of  solid  orbs.  The  Chaldeans,  the  most  learned  astrono
mers  of  their  time,  looked  upon  the  comets  (which  of  ancient  times  before
had  been  numbered  among  the  celestial  bodies)  as  a  particular  sort  of  plan
ets,  which,  describing  very  eccentric  orbits,  presented  themselves  to  our  view
only  by  turns,  viz.,  once  in  a  revolution,  when  they  descended  into  the
lower  parts  of  their  orbits.
And  as  it  was  the  unavoidable  consequence  of  the  hypothesis  of  solid
orbs,  while  it  prevailed,  that  the  comets  should  be  thrust  down  below  the
moon,  so  no  sooner  had  the  late  observations  of  astronomers  restored  the
comets  to  their  ancient  places  in  the  higher  heavens,  but  these  celestial  spaces
were  at  once  cleared  of  the  incurnbrance  of  solid  orbs,  which  by  these  ob
servations  were  broke  into  pieces,  and  discarded  for  ever.
Whence  it  was  that  the  planets  came  to  be  retained  within  any  certain
bounds  in  these  free  spaces,  and  to  be  drawn  off  from  the  rectilinear  courses,
which,  left  to  themselves,  they  should  have  pursued,  into  regular  revolu
tions  in  curvilinear  orbits,  are  questions  which  we  do  not  know  how  the
ancients  explained  ;  and  probably  it  was  to  give  some  sort  of  satisfaction
to  this  difficulty  that  solid  orbs  were  introduced.
The  later  philosophers  pretend  to  account  for  it  either  by  the  action  of
certain  vortices,  as  Kepler  and  Des  Cartes  ;  or  by  some  other  principle  of
impulse  or  attraction,  as  Borelli,  Honke,  and  others  of  our  nation  ;  for,
from  the  laws  of  motion,  it  is  most  certain  that  these  effects  must  proceed
from  the  action  of  some  force  or  other.
But  our  purpose  is  only  to  trace  out  the  quantity  and  properties  of  this
force  from  the  phenomena  (p.  218),  and  to  apply  what  we  discover  in  some
simple  cases  as  principles,  by  which,  in  a  mathematical  way,  we  may  esti
mate  the  effects  thereof  in  more  involved  cases  :  for  it  would  be  endless  and
impossible  to  bring  every  particular  to  direct  and  immediate  observation.
We  said,  in  a  mathematical  way,  to  avoid  all  questions  about  the  na
ture  or  quality  of  this  force,  which  we  would  not  be  understood  to  deter
mine  by  any  hypothesis;  and  therefore  call  it  by  the  general  name  of  a
centripetal  force,  as  it  is  a  force  which  is  directed  towards  some  centre ;
and  as  it  regards  more  particularly  a  body  in  that  centre,  we  call  it  circum
solar,  circum-terrestrial,  circum-jovial  ;  and  in  like  manner  in  respect  of
other  central  bodies.
That  by  means  of  centripetal  forces  the  planets  may  be  retained  in  cer
tain  orbits,  we  may  easily  understand,  if  we  consider  the  motions  of  pro
jectiles  (p.  75,  76,  77) ;  for  a  stone  projected  is  by  the  pressure  of  its  own
weight  forced  out  of  the  rectilinear  path,  which  by  the  projection  alone  it
should  have  pursued,  and  made  to  describe  a  curve  line  in  the  air ;  and
through  that  crooked  way  is  at  last  brought  down  to  the  ground ;  and  the
greater  the  velocity  is  with  which  it  is  projected,  the  farther  it  goes  before
it  falls  to  the  earth.  We  may  therefore  suppose  the  velocity  to  be  so  in
THE    SYSTEM    OF    THE    WORLD.   513
creased,  that  it  would  describe  an  arc  of  1,  2,  5,  10,  100.  1000  miles  before
it  arrived  at  the  earth,  till  at  last,  exceeding  the  limits  of  the  earth,  it
should  pass  quite  by  without  touching  it.
Let  AFB  represent  the  surface  of  the  earth,  C  its  centre,  VD,  VE,  VF,
the  curve  lines  which  a  body  would  describe,  if  projected  in  an  horizontal
direction  from  the  top  of  an  high  mountain  successively  "with  more  and
more  velocity  (p.  400) ;  and,  because  the  celestial  motions  are  scarcely  re
tarded  by  the  little  or  no  resistance  of  the  spaces  in  which  they  are  per
formed,  to  keep  up  the  parity  of  cases,  let  us  suppose  either  that  there  is
no  air  about  the  earth,  or  at  least  that  it  is  endowed  with  little  or  no  power
of  resisting ;  and  for  the  same  reason  tl  a*:  the  body  projected  with  a  less
velocity  describes  the  lesser  arc  VD,  and  with  a  greater  velocity  the  greater
arc  VE.  and,  augmenting  the  velocity,  it  goes  farther  and  farther  to  F  and
G,  if  the  velocity  was  still  more  and  more  augmented,  it  would  reach  at
last  quite  beyond  the  circumference  of  the  earth,  and  return  to  the  moun
tain  from  which  it  was  projected.
And  since  the  areas  which  by  this  motion  it  describes  by  a  radius  drawn
to  the  centre  of  the  earth  are  (by  Prop.  1,  Book  1,  Princip.  Math.}  propor
tional  to  the  times  in  which  they  are  described,  its  velocity,  when  it  returns
*o  the  mountain,  will  be  no  less  than  it  was  at  first;  and,  retaining  the
*ame  velocity,  it  will  describe  the  same  curve  over  and  over,  by  the  same  law
514   THE    SYSTEM    OF    THE   WORLD.
But  if  we  now  imagine  bodies  to  be  projected  in  the  directions  of  lines
parallel  to  the  horizon  from  greater  heights,  as  of  5,  10,  100,  1000,  or  more
miles,  or  rather  as  many  semi-diameters  of  the  earth,  those  bodies,  accord
ing  to  their  different  velocity,  and  the  different  force  of  gravity  in  different
heights,  will  describe  arcs  either  concentric  with  the  earth,  or  variously
eccentric,  and  go  on  revolving  through  the  heavens  in  those  trajectories,
just  as  the  planets  do  in  their  orbs.
As  when  a  stone  is  projected  obliquely,  that  is,  any  way  but  in  the  per
pendicular  direction,  the  perpetual  deflection  thereof  towards  the  earth
from  the  right  line  in  which  it  was  projected  is  a  proof  of  its  gravitation
to  the  earth,  no  less  certain  than  its  direct  descent  when  only  suffered  to
fall  freely  from  rest  ;  so  the  deviation  of  bodies  moving  in  free  spaces  from
rectilinear  paths,  and  perpetual  deflection  therefrom  towards  any  place,  is
a  sure  indication  of  the  existence  of  some  force  which  from  all  quarters
impels  those  bodies  towards  that  place.
And  as,  from  the  supposed  existence  of  gravity,  it  necessarily  follows
that  all  bodies  about  the  earth  must  press  downwards,  and  therefore  must
either  descend  directly  to  the  earth,  if  they  are  let  fall  from  rest,  or  at
least  perpetually  deviate  from  right  lines  towards  the  earth,  if  they  arc
projected  obliquely  ;  so  from  the  supposed  existence  of  a  force  directed  to
any  centre,  it  will  follow,  by  the  like  necessity,  that  all  bodies  upon  which
this  force  acts  mast  either  descend  directly  to  that  centre,  or  at  least  devi
ate  perpetually  towards  it  from  right  lines,  if  otherwise  they  should  have
moved  obliquely  in  these  right  lines.
And  how  from  the  motions  given  we  may  infer  the  forces,  or  from  the
forces  given  we  may  determine  the  motions,  is  shewn  in  the  two  first  Books
of  our  Principles  of  Philosophy.
If  the  earth  is  supposed  to  stand  still,  and  the  fixed  stars  to  be  revolved
in  free  spaces  in  the  space  of  24  hours,  it  is  certain  the  forces  by  which
the  fixed  stars  are  retained  in  their  orbs  are  not  directed  to  the  earth,  but
to  the  centres  of  the  several  orbs,  that  is,  of  the  several  parallel  circles,
which  the  fixed  stars,  declining  to  one  side  and  the  other  from  the  equator,
describe  daily  ;  also  that  by  radii  drawn  to  the  centres  of  those  orbs  tht
fixed  stars  describe  areas  exactly  proportional  to  the  times  of  description.
Then,  because  the  periodic  times  are  equal  (by  Cor.  Ill,  Prop.  IV,  Book  1),
it  follows  that  the  centripetal  forces  are  as  the  radii  of  the  several  orbs,
and  that  they  will  perpetually  revolve  in  the  same  orbs.  And  the  like
consequences  may  be  drawn  from  the  supposed  diurnal  motion  of  the
planets.
That  forces  should  be  directed  to  no  body  on  which  they  physically  de
pend,  but  to  innumerable  imaginary  points  in  the  axis  of  the  earth,  is  an
hypothesis  too  incongruous.  It  is  more  incongruous  still  that  those  forces
should  increase  exactly  in  proportion  of  the  distances  from  this  axis  ;  for
THE    SYSTEM    OF    THE    WORLD.   515
this  is  an  indi  ation  of  an  increase  to  immensity,  or  rather  to  infinity  ;
whereas  the  forces  of  natural  things  commonly  decrease  in  receding  from
the  fountain  from  which  they  flow.  But,  what  is  yet  more  absurd,  neither
are  the  areas  described  by  the  same  star  proportional  to  the  times,  nor  are
its  revolutions  performed  in  the  same  orb  ;  for  as  the  star  recedes  from  the
neighbouring  pole,  both  areas  and  orb  increase;  and  from  the  increase  of
the  urea  it  is  demonstrated  that  the  forces  are  not  directed  to  the  axis  of
the  earth.  And  this  difficulty  (Cor.  1,  Prop.  II)  arises  from  the  twofold
motion  that  is  observed  in  the  fixed  stars,  one  diurnal  round  the  axis  of
the  earth,  the  other  exceedingly  slow  round  the  axis  of  the  ecliptic.  And
the  explication  thereof  requires  a  composition  of  forces  so  perplexed  and
so  variable,  that  it  is  hardly  to  be  reconciled  with  any  physical  theory.
That  there  are  centripetal  forces  actually  directed  to  the  bodies  of  the
sun,  of  the  earth,  and  other  planets,  I  thus  infer.
The  moon  revolves  about  our  earth,  and  by  radii  drawn  to  its  centre
(p.  390)  describes  areas  nearly  proportional  to  the  times  in  which  they  are
described,  as  is  evident  from  its  velocity  compared  with  its  apparent  diame
ter  ;  for  its  motion  is  slower  when  its  diameter  is  less  (and  therefore  its
distance  greater),  and  its  motion  is  swifter  when  its  diameter  is  greater.
The  revolutions  of  the  satellites  of  Jupiter  about  that  planet  are  more
regular  (p.  386)  :  for  they  describe  circles  concentric  with  Jupiter  by  equa
ble  motions,  as  exactly  as  our  senses  can  distinguish.
And  so  the  satellites  of  Saturn  are  revolved  about  this  planet  with  mo
tions  nearly  (p.  387)  circular  and  equable,  scarcely  disturbed  by  any  eccen
tricity  hitherto  observed.
That  Venus  and  Mercury  are  revolved  about  the  sun,  is  demonstrable
from  their  moon-like  appearances  (p.  388) .  when  they  shine  with  a  full
face,  they  are  in  those  parts  of  their  orbs  which  in  respect  of  the  earth  lie
beyond  the  sun  ;  when  they  appear  half  full,  they  are  in  those  parts  whicli
Ire  over  against  the  sun  ;  when  horned,  in  those  parts  which  lie  between
the  earth  and  the  sun  ;  and  sometimes  they  pass  over  the  sun's  disk,  when
directly  interposed  between  the  eirth  and  the  sun.
And  Venus,  with  a  motion  almost  uniform,  describes  an  orb  nearly  cir
cular  and  concentric  with  the  sun.
But  Mercury,  with  a  more  eccentric  motion,  makes  remarkable  ap
proaches  to  the  sun,  and  goes  off  again  by  turns  ;  but  it  is  always  swifter
as  it  is  near  to  the  sun,  and  therefore  by  a  radius  drawn  to  the  sun  still
describes  areas  proportional  to  the  times.
Lastly,  that  the  earth  describes  about  the  sun,  or  the  sun  about  the
earth,  by  a  radius  from  the  one  to  the  other,  areas  exactly  proportional  to
the  times,  is  demonstrable  from  the  apparent  diameter  of  the  sun  com
pared  with  its  apparent  motion.
These  are  astronomical  experiments  ;  from  which  it  follows,  by  Prop.  I,
516  THE    SYSTEM    OF    THE    WORLD.
11,  III,  in  the  first  Book  of  our  Pn /triples,  and  their  Corollaries  (p.
213,  214).  that  there  are  centripetal  forces  actually  directed  (either  accu
rately  or  without  considerable  error)  to  the  centres  of  the  earth,  of  Jupi
ter,  of  S.iturn,  and  of  the  sun.  In  Mercury,  Venus,  Mars,  and  the  lesser
planets,  wheie  experiments  are  wanting,  the  arguments  from  analogy  must
be  allowed  in  their  place.
That  those  forces  (p.  212,  213,  214)  decrease  in  the  duplicate  propor
tion  of  the  distances  from  the  centre  of  every  planet,  appears  by  Cor.  VI,
Prop.  IV,  Book  1  ;  for  the  periodic  times  of  the  satellites  of  Jupiter  are
one  to  another  (p.  386,  387)  in  the  sesquiplicate  proportion  of  their  dis
tances  from  the  centre  of  this  planet.
This  proportion  has  been  long  ago  observed  in  those  satellites  ;  and  Mr.
Flamsted,  who  had  often  measured  their  distances  from  Jupiter  by  the
micrometer,  and  by  the  eclipses  of  the  satellites,  wrote  to  me,  that  it  holds
to  all  the  accuracy  that  possibly  can  be  discerned  by  our  senses.  And  he
sent  me  the  dimensions  of  their  orbits  taken  by  the  micrometer,  a*nd  re
duced  to  the  mean  distance  of  Jupiter  from  the  earth,  or  from  the  sun,
together  with  the  times  of  their  revolutions,  as  follows  : —
The  greatest  elon
gation  of  the  sate-
litesfrorn  the  cen
tre  of  Jupiter  as
seen  from  the  sun.
The  periodic
times  of  their
revolutions.
i     n            n
1st  1  48    or  108
2d    3  01     or  181
3d    4  46    or  286
4th  8  13£  or  493-i
H        h        '        "
1      18     28     36
3      13      17     54
7     03     59     36
16     18       5     13
Wherce  the  sesquiplicate  proportion  may  be  easily  seen.  For  example  ;
the  16(f  18h.  05'  13"  is  to  the  time  ld.  18h.  28'  36"  as  493i"  x  V  493i"
to  108  X  V  108",  neglecting  those  small  fractions  which,  in  observing,
cannot  ./e  certainly  determined.
Befo  e  the  invention  of  the  micrometer,  the  same  distances  vrere  deter
mined  7  \  semi-diameters  of  Jupiter  thus  : —
Distance  of  the       1st  2d
3d  4th
By  Galileo,   ...     6  10  16  28
"  Simon  Marius     .  6  10  16  26
u   Cassini    ...     5  8  13
23
"  Borelli,  more  ex
actly    .     .     .     5%
*%
14
24%
After  the  invention  of  the  micrometer  : —
By  Town  ley     .     .     .     5,51  8,78  13,47  24,72
"  Flamsted      .     .     .  5,31
8;85
13.98  24,23
More    accurately    by
the  eclipses       .     .     5,57818.876  14.159  24,903
THE    SYSTEM    OF    THE    WORLD.   6l7
And  the  periodic  times  of  those  satellites,  by  the  observations  of  Mr.
Flamsted,  are  ld.  18h.  28'  36"  |  3(l.  13".  17'  54"  |  7(1.  3h.  59'  36"  |  16".
IS11.  5'  13".  as  above.
And  the  distances  thence  computed  are  5,578  |  8,878  |  14,168  |  24,968,
accurately  agreeing  with  the  distances  by  observation.
Cassini  assures  us  (p.  388,  389)  that  the  same  proportion  is  observed
in  the  circum-saturnal  planets.  But  a  longer  course  of  observations  is
required  before  we  can  have  a  certain  and  accurate  theory  of  those  planets.
In  the  circum -solar  planets,  Mercury  and  Venus,  the  same  proportion
holds  with  great  accuracy,  according  to  the  dimensions  of  their  orbs,  as
determined  by  the  observations  of  the  best  astronomers.
That  Mars  is  revolved  about  the  sun  is  demonstrated  from  the  phases
which  it  shews,  and  the  proportion  of  its  apparent  diameters  (p.  388,  389,
and  390) ;  for  from  its  appearing  fall  near  conjunction  with  the  sun,  and
gibbous  in  its  quadratures,  it  is  certain  that  it  surrounds  the  sun.
And  since  its  diameter  appears  about  five  times  greater  when  in  opposi
tion  to  the  sun  than  when  in  conjunction  therewith,  and  its  distance  from
the  earth  is  reciprocally  as  its  apparent  diameter,  that  distance  will  be
about  five  times  less  when  in  opposition  to  than  when  in  conjunction  with
the  sun;  but  in  both  cases  its  distance  from  the  sun  will  be  nearly  about
the  same  with  the  distance  which  is  inferred  from  its  gibbous  appearance
in  the  quadratures.  And  as  it  encompasses  the  sun  at  almost  equal  dist  n-
ces,  but  in  respect  of  the  earth  is  very  unequally  distant,  so  by  radii  drawn
to  the  sun  it  describes  areas  nearly  uniform  ;  but  by  radii  drawn  to  the
earth,  it  is  sometimes  swift,  sometimes  stationary,  and  sometimes  retrograde.
That  Jupiter,  in  a  higher  orb  than  Mars,  is  likewise  revolved  about  the
sun,  with  a  motion  nearly  equable,  as  well  in  distance  as  in  the  areas  des
cribed,  1  infer  thus.
Mr.  Flamsted  assured  me,  by  letters,  that  all  the  eclipses  of  the  inner
most  satellite  which  hitherto  have  been  well  observed  do  agree  with  his
theory  so  nearly,  as  never  to  differ  therefrom  by  two  minutes  of  time  ;
that  in  the  outmost  the  error  is  little  greater  ;  in  the  outmost  but  one,
scarcely  three  times  greater ;  that  in  the  innermost  but  one  the  difference
is  indeed  much  greater,  yet  so  as  to  agree  as  nearly  with  his  computation?
as  the  moon  does  with  the  common  tables  ;  and  that  he  computes  those
eclipses  only  from  the  mean  motions  corrected  by  the  equation  of  light  dis
covered  and  introduced  by  Mr.  Rower.  Supposing,  then,  that  the  theory
differs  by  a  less  error  than  that  of  2'  from  the  motion  of  the  outmost  sat
ellite  as  hitherto  described,  and  taking  as  the  periodic  time  16'1.  18h.  5'  13"
to  2  in  time,  so  is  the  whole  circle  or  360°  to  the  arc  1'  48",  the  error  ol
Mr.  Flamsted's  computation,  reduced  to  the  satellite's  orbit,  will  be  less
than  1'  48"  ;  that  is,  the  longitude  of  the  satellite,  as  seen  from  tlie  centre
of  Jupiter;  will  be  determined  with  a  less  error  than  1'  48".  But  when
518   THE    SYSTEM    OF    THE    WORLD.
the  satellite  is  in  the  middle  of  the  shadow,  that  longitude  is  the  same  with
the  heliocentric  longitude  of  Jupiter ;  and,  therefore,  the  hypothesis  which
Mr.  Flamsted  follows,  viz.,  the  Copernican,  as  improved  by  Kepler,  and
fas  to  the  motion  of  Jupiter)  lately  corrected  by  himself,  rightly  represents
that  longitude  within  a  less  error  than  1'  48" ;  but  by  this  longitude,  to
gether  with  the  geocentric  longitude,  which  is  always  easily  found,  the  dis
tance  of  Jupiter  from  the  sun  is  determined  ;  which  must,  therefore,  be  the
very  same  with  that  which  the  hypothesis  exhibits.  For  that  greatest  error
of  I'  48"  that  can  happen  in  the  heliocentric  longitude  is  almost  insensi
ble,  and  quite  to  be  neglected,  and  perhaps  may  arise  from  some  yet  undis
covered  eccentricity  of  the  satellite  :  but  since  both  longitude  and  distance
are  rightly  determined,  it  follows  of  necessity  that  Jupiter,  by  radii  drawn
to  the  sun.  describes  areas  so  conditioned  as  the  hypothesis  requires,  that  is.
proportional  to  the  times.
And  the  same  thing  may  be  concluded  of  Saturn  from  his  satellite,  by
the  observations  of  Mr.  Huygens  and  Dr.  Halley  ;  though  a  longer  series
of  observations  is  yet  wanting  to  confirm  the  thing,  and  to  bring  it  under
a  sufficiently  exact  computation.
For  if  Jupiter  was  viewed  from  the  sun,  it  would  never  appear  retro
grade  nor  stationary,  as  it  is  seen  sometimes  from  the  earth,  but  always  to
go  forward  with  a  motion  nearly  uniform  (p.  389).  And  from  the  very
great  inequality  of  its  apparent  geocentric  motion,  we  infer  (by  Prop.  Ill
Cor.  IV)  that  the  force  by  which  Jupiter  is  turned  out  of  a  rectilinear  course,
and  made  to  revolve  in  an  orb,  is  not  directed  to  the  centre  of  the  earth.
And  the  same  argument  holds  good  in  Mars  and  in  Saturn.  Another  centre
of  these  forces  is  therefore  to  be  looked  for  (by  Prop.  II  and  III,  and  the
Corollaries  of  the  latter),  about  which  the  areas  described  by  radii  inter
vening  may  be  equable  ;  and  that  this  is  the  sun,  we  have  proved  already
in  Mars  and  Saturn  nearly,  but  accurately  enough  in  Jupiter.  It  may  be
alledged  that  the  sun  and  planets  are  impelled  by  some  other  force  equally
and  in  the  direction  of  parallel  lines ;  but  by  such  a  force  (by  Cor.  VI  of
the  Laws  of  Motion)  no  change  would  happen  in  the  situation  of  the
planets  one  to  another,  nor  any  sensible  eifect  follow  :  but  our  business  is
with  the  causes  of  sensible  effects.  Let  us,  therefore,  neglect  every  such
force  as  imaginary  and  precarious,  and  of  no  use  in  the  phenomena  of  the
heavens  ;  and  the  whole  remaining  force  by  which  Jupiter  is  impelled  will
be  directed  (by  Prop.  Ill,  Cor.  I)  to  the  centre  of  the  sun.
The  distances  of  the  planets  from  the  sun  come  out  the  same,  whether,
with  Tycho,  we  place  the  earth  in  the  centre  of  the  system,  or  the  sun  with
Copernicus  :  and  we  have  already  proved  that  these  distances  are  true  ir.
Jupiter.
Kepler  and  Bullialdiis  have,  with  great  care  (p.  388),  determined  the
listances  of  the  planets  from  the  sun  ;  and  hence  it  is  that  their  table.-?
THE    SYSTEM    OF    THE    WORLD.   519
agree  best  with  the  heavens.  And  in  all  the  planets,  in  Jupiter  and  Mars,
in  Saturn  and  the  earth,  as  well  as  in  Venus  and  Mercury,  the  cubes  of  their
distances  are  as  the  squares  of  their  periodic  times ;  and  therefore  (by  Cor.
VI,  Prop.  IV)  the  centripetal  circum-solar  force  throughout  all  the  plane
tary  regions  decreases  in  the  duplicate  proportion  of  the  distances  from  the
sun.  In  examining  this  proportion,  we  are  to  use  the  mean  distances,  or
the  transverse  semi-axes  of  the  orbits  (by  Prop.  XV).  arid  to  neglect  those
little  fractions,  which,  in  denning  the  orbits,  may  have  arisen  from  the  in
sensible  errors  of  observation,  or  may  be  ascribed  to  other  causes  which  we
shall  afterwards  explain.  And  thus  we  shall  always  find  the  said  propor
tion  to  hold  exactly;  for  the  distances  of  Saturn,  Jupiter,  Mars,  the  Earth,
Venus,  and  Mercury,  from  the  sun,  drawn  from  the  observations  of  as
tronomers,  are,  according  to  the  computation  of  Kepler,  as  the  numbers
95  LOGO,  519650,  152350,  100000,  72400,  3S806;  by  the  computation  of
/iHllialdus,  as  the  numbers  95419S,  522520,  152350,  100000,  72393,
38585  ;  and  from  the  periodic  times  they  come  out  953806,  520116,  152399,
100000,  72333,  38710.  Their  distances,  according  to  Kepler  and
Ktillwldus,  scarcely  differ  by  any  sensible  quantity,  and  where  they
differ  most  the  distances  drawn  from  the  periodic  times,  fall  in  between  them.
That  the  circum-terrestrial  force  likewise  decreases  in  the  duplicate  pro
portion  of  the  distances,  I  infer  thus.
The  mean  distance  of  the  moon  from  the  centre  of  the  earth,  is,  in  semi-
diameters  of  the  earth,  according  to  Ptolemy,  Kepler  in  his  Ephemerides,
Bidliuldus,  Hevelius,  and  Ricciolns,  59 ;  according  to  Flamsted,  59|  ;
according  to  Tycho,  56 1 ;  to  Vendelin,  60  ;  to  Copernicus,  60 1 :  to  Kir-
cher,  62i  (p.  391,  392,  393).
Cut  Tycho,  and  all  that  follow  his  tables  of  refraction,  making  the
refractions  of  the  sun  and  moon  (altogether  against  the  nature  of  light)
to  exceed  those  of  the  fixed  stars,  and  that  by  about  four  or  five  minutes
in  the  horizon,  did  thereby  augment  the  horizontal  parallax  of  the  moon
by  about  the  like  number  of  minutes  ;  that  is,  by  about  the  12th  or  15th
part  of  the  whole  par

---

MATH.-STAT.
SIM  ISAAC  MIBWf  OM«
NEWTON'S  PRINCIPIA.
THE
MATHEMATICAL  PRINCIPLES
OF
NATURAL   PHILOSOPHY,
BY   SIR   ISAAC  NEWTON;
TRANSLATED  INTO  ENGLISH  BY  ANDREW  MOTTE.
TO  WHICH   IS  ADDKTV
NEWTON'S  SYSTEM  OF  THE  WORLD  ;
With  a  Portrait  taken  from  the  Bust  in  the  Royal  Observatory  at  Greenwich.
FIRST  AMERICAN  EDITION,  CAREFULLY  REVISED  AND   CORRECTED,
WITH  A  LIFE  OF  THE  AUTHOR,  BY  PI.  W.  CHITTENDEN,  M.  A.,  &e.
NEW-YORK
PUBLISHED  BY  DANIEL  ADEE,   45   LIBERTY   STREET.
p*-
Kntered  according  to  Act  of  Congress,  in  the  year  1846,  by
DANIEL   ADEE.
3!Ltht  Clerk's  Office  ut'tiie  Southern  Oisli:ct  Court  of  New-York.
TWuey  *  Lockwoof,  Stom
16  Spruce  St.  N.  Y.
DEDICATION.
TO  THE
TEACHERS  OF  THE  NORMAL  SCHOOL
OF  THE  STATE  OF  NEW-YORK.
GENTLEMEN  !
A  stirring  freshness  in  the  air,  and  ruddy  streaks  upon  the
horizon  of  the  moral  world  betoken  the  grateful  dawning  of  a  new
ora.  The  days  of  a  drivelling  instruction  are  departing.  With
us  is  the  opening  promise  of  a  better  time,  wherein  genuine  man
hood  doing  its  noblest  work  shall  have  adequate  reward.
TEACHER  is  the  highest  and  most  responsible  office  man  can  fill.
Its  dignity  is,  and  will  yet  be  held  commensurate  with  its  duty —
a  duty  boundless  as  man's  intellectual  capacity,  and  great  as  his
moral  need — a  duty  from  the  performance  of  which  shall  emanate
an  influence  not  limited  to  the  now  and  the  here,  but  which  surely
will,  as  time  flows  into  eternity  and  space  into  infinity,  roll  up,  a
measureless  curse  or  a  measureless  blessing,  in  inconceivable
swellings  along  the  infinite  curve.  It  is  an  office  that  should  be
esteemed  of  even  sacred  import  in  this  country.  Ere  long  a  hun
dred  millions,  extending  from  the  Atlantic  to  the  Pacific,  from
Baffin's  Bay  to  that  of  Panama,  shall  call  themselves  American
citizens.  What  a  field  for  those  two  master-passions  of  the  hu
man  soul — the  love  of  Rule,  and  the  love  of  Gain  !  How  shall
our  liberties  continue  to  be  preserved  from  the  graspings  of  Am
bition  and  the  corruptions  of  Gold  ?  Not  by  Bills  of  Rights
4   DEDICATION.
Constitutions,  and  Statute  Books  ;  but  alone  by  the  rightly  culti
vated  hearts  and  heads  of  the  PEOPLE.  They  must  themselves
guard  the  Ark.  It  is  yours  to  tit  them  for  the  consecrated
charge.  Look  well  to  it :  for  you  appear  clothed  in  the  majesty
of  great  power  !  It  is  yours  to  fashion,  and  to  inform  ,  to  save,
and  to  perpetuate.  You  are  the  Educators  of  the  People  :  you
are  the  prime  Conservators  of  the  public  weal.  Betray  your
trust,  and  the  sacred  fires  would  go  out,  and  the  altars  crumble
into  dust  :  knowledge  become  lost  in  tradition,  and  Christian  no
bleness  a  fable !  As  you,  therefore,  are  multiplied  in  number,
elevated  in  consideration,  increased  in  means,  and  fulfill,  well  and
faithfully,  all  the  requirements  of  true  Teachers,  so  shall  our  fa
voured  land  lift  up  her  head  among  the  nations  of  the  earth,  and
call  herself  blessed.
In  conclusion,  Gentlemen,  to  you,  as  the  conspicuous  leaders
in  the  vast  and  honourable  labour  of  Educational  Helbrm,  ana
Popular  Teaching,  the  First  American  Edition  of  the  PRINCIPIA  ol
Newton — the  greatest  wrork  of  the  greatest  Teacher — is  most
respectfully  dedicated.  N.  W.  CHITTENDEN.
INTRODUCTION  TO  THE  AMERICAN  EDITION.
THAT  the  PRINCIPIA  of  Newton  should  have  remained  so  gen
erally  unknown  in  this  country  to  the  present  day  is  a  somewhat
remarkable  fact  ;  because  the  name  of  the  author,  learned  with
the  very  elements  of  science,  is  revered  at  every  hearth-stone
where  knowledge  and  virtue  are  of  chief  esteem,  while,  abroad,
in  all  the  high  places  of  the  land,  the  character  which  that  name
recalls  is  held  up  as  the  noblest  illustration  of  what  MAN  may  be,
and  may  do,  in  the  possession  and  manifestation  of  pre-eminent
intellectual  and  moral  worth  ;  because  the  work  is  celebrated,  not
only  in  the  history  of  one  career  and  one  mind,  but  in  the  history
of  all  achievement  and  human  reason  itself;  because  of  the  spirit
of  inquiry,  which  has  been  aroused,  and  which,  in  pursuing  its
searchings,  is  not  always  satisfied  with  stopping  short  of  the  foun
tain-head  of  any  given  truth  ;  and,  finally,  because  of  the  earnest
endeavour  that  has  been  and  is  constantly  going  on,  in  many
sections  of  the  Republic,  to  elevate  the  popular  standard  of  edu
cation  and  give  to  scientific  and  other  efforts  a  higher  and  a
better  aim.
True,  the  PRINCIPIA  has  been  hitherto  inaccessible  to  popular
use.  A  few  copies  in  Latin,  and  occasionally  one  in  English  may
be  found  in  some  of  our  larger  libraries,  or  in  the  possession  of
some  ardent  disciple  of  the  great  Master.  But  a  d^ad  language
in  the  one  case,  and  an  enormous  price  in  both,  particularly  in
that  of  the  English  edition,  have  thus  far  opposed  very  sufficient
obstacles  to  the  wide  circulation  of  the  work.  It  is  now,  how
ever,  placed  within  the  reach  of  all.  And  in  performing  this  la
bour,  the  utmost  care  has  been  taken,  by  collation,  revision,  and
otherwise,  to  render  the  First  American  Edition  the  most  accurate
and  beautiful  in  our  language.  u  Le  plus  beau  monument  que
l?  on  puisse  clever  a  la  gloire  de  Newton,  c'est  une  bonne  edition
de  ses  ouvrages  :"  and  a  monument  like  unto  that  we  would  here
V:   INTRODUCTION    TO
set  up.  The  PRINCIPIA,  above  all,  glows  with  the  immortality  of
a  transcendant  mind.  Marble  and  brass  dissolve  and  pass  away  ;
but  the  true  creations  of  genius  endure,  in  time  and  beyond  time,
forever  :  high  upon  the  adamant  of  the  indestructible,  they  send
forth  afar  and  near,  over  the  troublous  waters  of  life,  a  pure,  un
wavering,  quenchless  light  whereby  the  myriad  myriads  of  barques,
richly  laden  with  reason,  intelligence  and  various  faculty,  are
guided  through  the  night  and  the  storm,  by  the  beetling  shore
and  the  hidden  rock,  the  breaker  and  the  shoal,  safely  into  havens
calm  and  secure.
To  the  teacher  and  the  taught,  the  scholar  and  the  student,  the
devotee  of  Science  and  the  worshipper  of  Truth,  the  PRINCIPIA
must  ever  continue  to  be  of  inestimable  value.  If  to  educate
means,  not  so  much  to  store  the  memory  with  symbols  and  facts,
as  to  bring  forth  the  faculties  of  the  soul  and  develope  them  to  the
full  by  healthy  nurture  and  a  hardy  discipline,  then,  what  so  effec
tive  to  the  accomplishment  of  that  end  as  the  study  of  Geometri
cal  Synthesis  ?  The  Calculus,  in  some  shape  or  other,  is,  indeed,
necessary  to  the  successful  prosecution  of  researches  in  the  higher
branches  of  philosophy.  But  has  not  the  Analytical  encroached
upon  the  Synthetical,  and  Algorithmic  Formulae  been  employed
when  not  requisite,  either  for  the  evolution  of  truth,  or  even  its
apter  illustration  ?  To  each  method  belongs,  undoubtedly,  an
appropriate  use.  Newton,  himself  the  inventor  of  Fluxions,
censured  the  handling  of  Geometrical  subjects  by  Algebraical
calculations  ;  and  the  maturest  opinions  which  he  expressed  were
additionally  in  favour  of  the  Geometrical  Method.  His  prefer
ence,  so  strongly  marked,  is  not  to  be  reckoned  a  mere  matter  oi
taste  ;  and  his  authority  should  bear  with  preponderating  weight
upon  the  decision  of  every  instructor  in  adopting  what  may  be
deemed  the  best  plan  to  insure  the  completes!  mental  develop
ment.  Geometry,  the  vigorous  product  of  remote  time  ;  blended
with  the  earliest  aspirations  of  Science  and  the  earliest  applica
tions  of  Art ;  as  well  in  the  measures  of  music  as  in  the  move
ment  of  spheres  ;  as  wholly  in  the  structure  of  the  atom  as  in  that
of  the  world;  directing  MOTION  and  shaping  APPEARANCE;  in  a
wonl,  *t  the  moulding  of  the  created  all,  is,  in  comprehensive
THE    AMERICAN    EDITION.   Vll
view,  the  outward  form  of  that  Inner  Harmony  of  which  and  in
which  all  things  are.  Plainly,  therefore,  this  noble  study  has
other  and  infinitely  higher  uses  than  to  increase  the  power  of  ab
straction.  A  more  general  and  thorough  cultivation  of  it  should
oe  strenuously  insisted  on.  Passing  from  the  pages  of  Euclid  or
Legendre,  might  not  the  student  be  led,  at  the  suitable  time,  to
those  of  the  PRINCIPIA  wherein  Geometry  may  be  found  in  varied
use  from  the  familiar  to  the  sublime  ?  The  profoundest  and  the
happiest  results,  it  is  believed,  would  attend  upon  this  enlargement
of  our  Educational  System.
Let  the  PRINCIPIA,  then,  be  gladly  welcomed  into  every  Hall
where  a  TRUE  TEACHER  presides.  And  they  who  are  guided  to
the  diligent  study  of  this  incomparable  work,  who  become
strengthened  by  its  reason,  assured  by  its  evidence,  and  enlight
ened  by  its  truths,  and  who  rise  into  loving  communion  with  the
great  and  pure  spirit  of  its  author,  will  go  forth  from  the  scenes
of  their  pupilage,  and  take  their  places  in  the  world  as  strong-
minded,  right-hearted  men — such  men  as  the  Theory  of  our
Government  contemplates  and  its  practical  operation  absolutely
demands.
LIFE  OF
SIE  ISAAC  NEWTON.
Nec  fas  est  proprius  mortal?  attingere  Divos. — HALLEY.
FROM  the  thick  darkness  of  the  middle  ages  man's  struggling
spirit  emerged  as  in  new  birth  ;  breaking  out  of  the  iron  control
of  that  period  ;  growing  strong  and  confident  in  the  tug  and  din
of  succeeding  conflict  and  revolution,  it  bounded  forwards  and
upwards  with  resistless  vigour  to  the  investigation  of  physical  and
moral  truth  ;  ascending  height  after  height  ;  sweeping  afar  over
the  earth,  penetrating  afar  up  into  the  heavens  ;  increasing  in  en
deavour,  enlarging  in  endowment  ;  every  where  boldly,  earnestly
out-stretching,  till,  in  the  AUTHOR  of  the  PRINCIPIA,  one  arose,
who,  grasping  the  master-key  of  the  universe  and  treading  its
celestial  paths,  opened  up  to  the  human  intellect  the  stupendous
realities  of  the  material  world,  and,  in  the  unrolling  of  its  harmo
nies,  gave  to  the  human  heart  a  new  song  to  the  goodness,  wis
dom,  and  majesty  of  the  all-creating,  all-sustaining,  all-perfect
God.
Sir  Isaac  Newton,  in  whom  the  rising  intellect  seemed  to  attain,
as  it  were,  to  its  culminating  point,  was  born  on  the  25th  of  De
cember,  O.  S.  1642 — Christmas  day — at  Woolsthorpe,  in  the
parish  of  Colsterworth,  in  Lincolnshire.  His  father,  John  New
ton,  died  at  the  age  of  thirty-six,  and  only  a  few  months  after  his
marriage  to  Harriet  Ayscough,  daughter  of  James  Ayscough,  oi
Rutlandshire.  Mrs.  Newton,  probably  wrought  upon  by  the
early  loss  of  her  husband,  gave  premature  birth  to  her  only  and
posthumous  child,  of  which,  too,  from  its  extreme  diminutiveness,
she  appeared  likely  to  be  soon  bereft.  Happily,  it  was  otherwise
decreed  !  The  tiny  infant,  on  whose  little  lips  the  breath  of  life
10   LIFE    OF    SIR    ISAAC    NEWTON.
so  doubtingly  hovered,  lived  ; — lived  to  a  vigorous  maturity,  to  a
hale  old  age  ; — lived  to  become  the  boast  of  his  country,  the  won
der  of  his  time,  and  the  "ornament  of  his  srjecies."
Beyond  the  grandfather,  Robert  Newton,  the  descent  of  Sir
Isaac  cannot  with  certainty  be  traced.  Two  traditions  were  held
in  the  family :  one,  that  they  were  of  Scotch  extraction  ;  the
other,  that  they  came  originally  from  Newton,  in  Lancashire,
dwelling,  for  a  time,  however,  at  Westby,  county  of  Lincoln,  be
fore  the  removal  to  and  purchase  of  Woolsthorpe — about  a  hundred
years  before  this  memorable  birth.
The  widow  Newton  was  left  with  the  simple  means  of  a  com
fortable  subsistence.     The  Woolsthorpe  estate  together  with
small  one  which  she  possessed  at  Sewstern,  in  Leicestershire,  yield
ed  her  an  income  of  some  eighty  pounds ;  and  upon  this  limited  sum,
she  had  to  rely  chiefly  for  the  support  of  herself,  and  the  educa
tion  of  her  child.     She   continued  his  nurture  for  three  years,
when,  marrying  again,  she  confided  the  tender  charge  to  the  care
of  her  own  mother.
Great  genius  is  seldom  marked  by  precocious  development  ;
and  young  Isaac,  sent,  at  the  usual  age,  to  two  day  schools  at
Skillington  and  Stoke,  exhibited  no  unusual  traits  of  character.
In  his  twelfth  year,  he  was  placed  at  the  public  school  at  Gran-
tham,  and  boarded  at  the  house  of  Mr.  Clark,  an  apothecary.
But  even  in  this  excellent  seminary,  his  mental  acquisitions  con
tinued  for  a  while  unpromising  enough  :  study  apparentlv  had  no
charms  for  him  ;  he  was  very  inattentive,  and  ranked  low  in  the
school.  One  day,  however,  the  boy  immediately  above  our  seem
ingly  dull  student  gave  him  a  severe  kick  in  the  stomach  ;  Isaac,
deeply  affected,  but  with  no  outburst  of  passion,  betook  himself,
with  quiet,  incessant  toil,  to  his  books  ;  he  quickly  passed  above
the  offending  classmate  ;  yet  there  he  stopped  not  ;  the  strong
spirit  was,  for  once  and  forever,  awakened,  and,  yielding  to  itb
noble  impulse,  he  speedily  took  up  his  position  at  the  head  of  all.
His  peculiar  character  began  now  rapidly  to  unfold  itself.
Close  application  grew  to  be  habitual.  Observation  alternated
with  reflection.  "  A  sober,  silent,  thinking  lad,"  yet,  the  wisest
and  the  kindliest,  the  indisputable  leader  of  his  fellows.  Gener-
LIFE    OF    SIR    ISA  VC    NEWTON.   11
osity,  modesty,  and  a  love  of  truth  distinguished  him  then  as  ever
afterwards.  He  did  not  often  join  his  classmates  in  play  ;  but  he
would  contrive  for  them  various  amusements  of  a  scientific  kind.
Paper  kites  he  introduced  ;  carefully  determining  their  best  form
and  proportions,  and  the  position  and  number  of  points  whereby
to  attach  the  string.  He  also  invented  paper  lanterns  ;  these
served  ordinarily  to  guide  the  way  to  school  in  winter  mornings,
but  occasionally  for  quite  another  purpose  ;  they  were  attached  to
the  tails  of  kites  in  a  dark  night,  to  the  dismay  of  the  country  people
dreading  portentous  comets,  and  to  the  immeasureable  delight  ol
his  companions.  To  him,  however,  young  as  he  was,  life  seemed
to  have  become  an  earnest  thing.  When  not  occupied  with  his
studies,  his  mind  would  be  engrossed  with  mechanical  contrivances  ;
now  imitating,  now  inventing.  He  became  singularly  skilful  in  the
use  of  his  little  saws,  hatchets,  hammers,  and  other  tools.  A
windmill  was  erected  near  Grantham  ;  during  the  operations  ol
the  workmen,  he  was  frequently  present  ;  in  a  short  time,  he  had
completed  a  perfect  working  model  of  it,  which  elicited  general
admiration.  Not  content,  however,  with  this  exact  imitation,  he
conceived  the  idea  of  employing,  in  the  place  of  sails,  animal  power  ,
and,  adapting  the  construction  of  his  mill  accordingly,  he  enclosed
in  it  a  mouse,  called  the  miller,  and  which  by  acting  on  a  sort  ot
treadvvheel,  gave  motion  to  the  machine.  He  invented,  too,  a
mechanical  carriage — having  four  wheels,  and  put  in  motion  with
a  handle  worked  by  the  person  sitting  inside.  The  measurement
of  time  early  drew  his  attention.  He  h'rst  constructed  a  water
clock,  in  proportions  somewhat  like  an  old-fashioned  house  clock.
The  index  of  the  dial  plate  was  turned  by  a  piece  of  wood  acted
upon  by  dropping  water.  This  instrument,  though  long  used  by
himself,  and  by  Mr.  Clark's  family,  did  not  satisfy  his  inquiring
mind.  His  thoughts  rose  to  the  sun  ;  and,  by  careful  and  oft-re
peated  observations  of  the  solar  movements,  he  subsequently
formed  many  dials.  One  of  these,  named  Isaac's  dial,  was  the
accurate  result  of  years'  labour,  and  was  frequently  referred  to
for  the  hour  of  the  day  by  the  country  people.
May  we  not  discern  in  these  continual  efforts — the  diligent  re
search^  the  patient  meditation,  the  aspiring  glance,  and  the  energy
12   LIFE    OF    SIR    ISAAC    NEWTON.
of  discovery — the  stirring  elements  of  that  wondrous  spirit,
which,  clear,  calm,  and  great,  moved,  in  after  years,  through
deep  onward  through  deep  of  Nature's  mysteries,  unlocking  her
strongholds,  dispelling  darkness,  educing  order — everywhere  si
lently  conquering.
Newton  had  an  early  and  decided  taste  for  drawing.  Pictures,
taken  sometimes  from  copies,  but  often  from  life,  and  drawn,
coloured  and  framed  by  himself,  ornamented  his  apartment.  He
was  skilled  also,  in  poetical  composition,  "  excelled  in  making
verses  ;"  some  of  these  were  borne  in  remembrance  and  repeated,
seventy  years  afterward,  by  Mrs.  Vincent,  for  whom,  in  early
youth,  as  Miss  Storey,  he  formed  an  ardent  attachment.  She
was  the  sister  of  a  physician  resident  near  Woolsthorpe  ;  but
Newton's  intimate  acquaintance  with  her  began  at  Grantham.
where  they  were  both  numbered  among  the  inmates  of  the  same
house.  Two  or  three  years  younger  than  himself,  of  great  per
sonal  beauty,  and  unusual  talent,  her  society  afforded  him  the
greatest  pleasure  ;  and  their  youthful  friendship,  it  is  believed,
gradually  rose  to  a  higher  passion  ;  but  inadequacy  of  fortune
prevented  their  union.  Miss  Storey  was  afterwards  twice  mar
ried  ;  Newton,  never;  his  esteem  for  her  continued  unabated
during  life,  accompanied  by  numerous  acts  of  attention  and
kindness.
In  1656,  Newton's  mother  was  again  left  a  widowr,  and  took
up  her  abode  once  more  at  Woolsthorpe.  He  was  now  fifteen
years  of  age,  and  had  made  great  progress  in  his  studies  ;  but  she,
desirous  of  his  help,  and  from  motives  of  economy,  recalled  him
from  school.  Business  occupations,  however,  and  the  manage
ment  of  the  farm,  proved  utterly  distasteful  to  him.  When  sent  to
Grantham  Market  on  Saturdays,  he  would  betake  himself  to  his
former  lodgings  in  the  apothecary's  garret,  where  some  of  Mr.
Clark's  old  books  employed  his  thoughts  till  the  aged  and  trust
worthy  servant  had  executed  the  family  commissions  and  announced
the  necessity  of  return  :  or,  at  other  times,  our  young  philosopher
would  seat  himself  under  a  hedge,  by  the  wayside,  and  continue
his  studies  till  the  same  faithful  personage — proceeding  alone  to
the  town  and  completing  the  day's  business — stopped  as  he  re-
LIFE    OF    SIR    ISAAC    NEWTON,   13
turned.  The  more  immediate  affairs  of  the  farm  received  no
better  attention.  In  fact,  his  passion  for  study  grew  daily  more
absorbing,  and  his  dislike  for  every  other  occupation  more  in
tense.  His  mother,  therefore,  wisely  resolved  to  give  him  all  the
advantages  which  an  education  could  confer.  He  was  sent  back
to  Grantham  school,  where  he  remained  for  some  months  in  busy
preparation  for  his  academical  studies.  At  the  recommendation
of  one  of  his  uncles,  who  had  himself  studied  at  Trinity  College,
Cambridge,  Newton  proceeded  thither,  and  was  duly  admitted.
on  the  5th  day  of  June  1660,  in  the  eighteenth  year  of  his  age.
The  eager  student  had  now  entered  upon  a  new  and  wider
field  ;  and  we  find  him  devoting  himself  to  the  pursuit  of  know
ledge  with  amazing  ardour  and  perseverance.  Among  other  sub
jects,  his  attention  was  soon  drawn  to  that  of  Judicial  Astrology
He  exposed  the  folly  of  this  pseudo-science  by  erecting  a  figure
with  the  aid  of  one  or  two  of  the  problems  of  Euclid  ; — and  thus
began  his  study  of  the  Mathematics.  His  researches  into  this
science  were  prosecuted  with  unparallelled  vigour  and  success.
Regarding  the  propositions  contained  in  Euclid  as  self-evident
truths,  he  passed  rapidly  over  this  ancient  system — a  step  which
he  afterward  much  regretted — and  mastered,  without  further  pre
paratory  study,  the  Analytical  Geometry  of  Descartes.  Wallis's
Arithmetic  of  Infinites,  Saunderson's  Logic,  and  the  Optics  of
Kepler,  he  also  studied  with  great  care  ;  writing  upon  them
many  comments  ;  and,  in  these  notes  on  Wallis's  work  was  un
doubtedly  the  germ  of  his  fluxionary  calculus.  His  progress  was
so  great  that  he  found  himself  more  profoundly  versed  than  his  tutor
in  many  branches  of  learning.  Yet  his  acquisitions  were  not
gotten  with  the  rapidity  of  intuition  ;  but  they  were  thoroughly
made  and  firmly  secured.  Quickness  of  apprehension,  or  Intel
lectual  nimbleness  did  not  belong  to  him.  He  saw  too  far  :  his,
insight  was  too  deep.  He  dwelt  fully,  cautiously  upon  the  least
subject  ;  while  to  the  consideration  of  the  greatest,  he  brought  a
massive  strength  joined  with  a  matchless  clearness,  that,  regard
less  of  the  merely  trivial  or  unimportant,  bore  with  unerring  sa
gacity  upon  the  prominences  of  the  subject,  and,  grappling  with
its  difficulties,  rarely  failed  to  surmount  them.
14   LIFE    OF    SIR    ISAAC    NEWTON
His  early  and  fast  friend,  Dr.  Barrow — in  compass  of  inven
tion  only  inferior  to  Newton — who  had  been  elected  Professor
of  Greek  in  the  University,  in  1660,  was  made  Lucasian  Profes
sor  of  Mathematics  in  1663,  and  soon  afterward  delivered  his
Optical  Lectures  :  the  manuscripts  of  these  were  revised  by  New
ton,  and  several  oversights  corrected,  and  many  important  sug
gestions  made  by  him  ;  but  they  were  not  published  till  1669.
In  the  year  1665,  he  received  the  degree  of  Bachelor  of  Arts ;
and,  in  1666,  he  entered  upon  those  brilliant  and  imposing  dis
coveries  which  have  conferred  inappreciable  benefits  upon  science,
and  immortality  upon  his  own  name.
Newton,  himself,  states  that  he  was  in  possession  of  his  Method
of  Fluxions,  "  in  the  year  1666,  or  before."  Infinite  quantities
had  long  been  a  subject  of  profound  investigation  ;  among  the
ancients  by  Archimedes,  and  Pappus  of  Alexandria  ;  among  the
moderns  by  Kepler,  Cavaleri,  Roberval,  Fermat  and  Wallis.
With  consummate  ability  Dr.  Wallis  had  improved  upon  the  la-
hours  of  his  predecessors  :  with  a  higher  power,  Newton  moved
forwards  from  where  Wallis  stopped.  Our  author  first  invented
his  celebrated  BINOMIAL  THEOREM.  And  then,  applying  this
Theorem  to  the  rectification  of  curves,  and  to  the  determination
of  the  surfaces  and  contents  of  solids,  and  the  position  of  their
centres  of  gravity,  he  discovered  the  general  principle  of  deducing
the  areas  of  curves  from  the  ordinate,  by  considering  the  area  as
a  nascent  quantity,  increasing  by  continual  fluxion  in  the  propor
tion  of  the  length  of  the  ordinate,  and  supposing  the  abscissa
to  increase  uniformly  in  proportion  to  the  time.  Regarding  lines
as  generated  by  the  motion  of  points,  surfaces  by  the  motion  of
lines,  and  solids  by  the  motion  of  surfaces,  and  considering  that
the  ordinates,  abscissae,  &c.,  of  curves  thus  formed,  vary  accord
ing  to  a  regular  law  depending  on  the  equation  of  the  curve,
he  deduced  from  this  equation  the  velocities  with  which  these
quantities  are  generated,  and  obtained  by  the  rules  of  infinite
series,  the  ultimate  value  required.  To  the  velocities  with  which
every  line  or  quantity  is  generated,  he  gave  the  name  of  FLUX
IONS,  and  to  the  lines  or  quantities  themselves,  that  of  FLUENTS.
A  discovery  that  successively  baffled  the  acutest  and  strongest
LIFE    OF    SIR    ISAAC    NEWTON.   15
intellects  : — that,  variously  modified,  has  proved  of  incalculable
service  in  aiding  to  develope  the  most  abstruse  and  the  highest
'ruths  in  Mathematics  and  Astronomy  :  and  that  was  of  itself
enough  to  render  any  name  illustrious  in  the  crowded  Annals  of
Science.
At  this  period,  the  most  distinguished  philosophers  were  direct
ing  all  their  energies  to  the  subject  of  light  and  the  improvement
of  the  refracting  telescope.  Newton,  having  applied  himself  to
the  grinding  of  "optic  glasses  of  other  figures  than  spherical,"  ex
perienced  the  impracticability  of  executing  such  lenses  ;  and  con
jectured  that  their  defects,  and  consequently  those  of  refracting
telescopes,  might  arise  from  some  other  cause  than  the  imperfect
convergency  of  rays  to  a  single  point.  He  accordingly  "procured
a  triangular  glass  prism  to  try  therewith  the  celebrated  phenom
ena  of  colours."  His  experiments,  entered  upon  with  zeal,  and
conducted  with  that  industry,  accuracy,  and  patient  thought,  for
which  he  was  so  remarkable,  resulted  in  the  grand  conclusion,
that  LIGHT  WAS  NOT  HOMOGENEOUS,  BUT  CONSISTED  OF  RAYS,
SOME  OF  WHICH  WERE  MORE    REFRANGIBLE    THAN    OTHERS.       This
profound  and  beautiful  discovery  opened  up  a  new  era  in  the
History  of  Optics.  As  bearing,  however,  directly  upon  the  construc
tion  of  telescopes,  he  saw  that  a  lens  refracting  exactly  like  a  prism
would  necessarily  bring  the  different  rays  to  different  foci,  at
different  distances  from  the  glass,  confusing  and  rendering  the
vision  indistinct.  Taking  for  granted  that  all  bodies  produced
spectra  of  ^  jtial  length,  he  dismissed  all  further  consideration  of
the  refracting  instrument,  and  took  up  the  principle  of  reflection.
Rays  of  all  colours,  he  found,  were  reflected  regularly,  so  that  the
angle  of  reflection  was  equal  to  the  angle  of  incidence,  and  hence
he  concluded  that  ojitical  instruments  might  be  brought  to  any
degree  of  perfection  imaginable,  provided  reflecting  specula  of
the  requisite  figure  and  finish  could  be  obtained.  At  this  stage
of  his  optical  researches,  he  was  forced  to  leave  Cambridge  on
account  of  the  plague  which  was  then  desolating  England.
He  retired  to  Woolsthorpe.  The  old  manor-house,  in  which  he
was  born,  was  situated  in  a  beautiful  little  valley,  on  the  west  side
of  the  river  Witham  ;  and  here  in  the  quiet  home  of  his  boyhood,
2
16   LIFE    OF    SIR    ISAAC    NEWTON.
he  passed  his  days  in  serene  contemplation,  while  the  stalking
pestilence  was  hurrying  its  tens  of  thousands  into  undistinguisha  •
ble  graves.
Towards  the  close  of  a  pleasant  day  in  the  early  autumn  of
1666,  he  was  seated  alone  beneath  a  tree,  in  his  garden,  absorbed
in  meditation.  He  was  a  slight  young  man  ;  in  the  twenty-fourth
year  of  his  age  ;  his  countenance  mild  and  full  of  thought.  For
a  century  previous,  the  science  of  Astronomy  had  advanced  with
rapid  strides.  The  human  mind  had  risen  from  the  gloom  and
bondage  of  the  middle  ages,  in  unparalleled  vigour,  to  unfold  the
system,  to  investigate  the  phenomena,  and  to  establish  the  laws
of  the  heavenly  bodies.  Copernicus,  Tycho  Brahe,  Kepler,
Galileo,  and  others  had  prepared  and  lighted  the  way  for  him
who  was  ta  give  to  their  labour  its  just  value,  and  to  their  genius
its  true  lustre.  At  his  bidding  isolated  facts  were  to  take  order
as  parts  of  one  harmonious  whole,  and  sagacious  conjectures  grow
luminous  in  the  certain  splendour  of  demonstrated  truth.  And
this  ablest  man  had  come — was  here.  His  mind,  familiar  with
the  knowledge  of  past  effort,  and  its  unequalled  faculties  develop
ed  in  transcendant  strength,  was  now  moving  on  to  the  very
threshold  of  Its  grandest  achievement.  Step  by  step  the  untrod
den  path  was  measured,  till,  at  length,  the  entrance  seemed  dis
closed,  and  the  tireless  explorer  to  stand  amid  the  first  opening
wonders  of  the  universe.
The  nature  of  gravity — that  mysterious  power  which  causes
all  bodies  to  descend  towards  the  centre  of  the  earth — had,  in
deed,  dawned  upon  him.  And  reason  busily  united  link  to  link
of  that  chain  which  was  yet  to  be  traced  joining  the  least  to  the
vastest,  the  most  remote  to  the  nearest,  in  one  harmonious  bond.
From  the  bottoms  of  the  deepest  caverns  to  the  summits  of  the
highest  mountains,  this  power  suffers  no  sensible  change  :  may  not
its  action,  then,  extend  to  the  moon  ?  Undoubtedly  :  and  furthei
reflection  convinced  him  that  such  a  power  might  be  .sufficient  for
retaining  that  luminary  in  her  orbit  round  the  earth.  But,  though
this  power  suffers  no  sensible  variation,  in  the  little  change  of
distance  from  the  earth's  centre,  at  which  we  may  place  our-
.'«lves,  yet,  at  the  distance  of  the  moon,  :miy  not  its  force  undergo
LIFE    OF    SIR    ISAAC    NEWTON.   17
more  or  less  diminution  ?  The  conjecture  appeared  most  proba
ble  :  and,  in  order  to  estimate  what  the  degree  of  diminution
might  be,  he  considered  that  if  the  moon  be  retained  in  her  orbit
by  the  force  of  gravity,  the  primary  planets  must  also  be  carried
round  the  sun  by  the  like  power;  and,  by  comparing  the  periods
of  the  several  planets  with  their  distances  from  the  sun,  he  found
that,  if  they  were  held  in  their  courses  by  any  power  like  gravity,
its  strength  must  decrease  in  the  duplicate  proportion  of  the  in
crease  of  distance.  In  forming  this  conclusion,  he  supposed  the
planets  to  move  in  perfect  circles,  concentric  to  the  sun.  Now
was  this  the  law  of  the  moon's  motion  ?  Was  such  a  force,  em
anating  from  the  earth  and  directed  to  the  moon,  sufficient,  when
diminished  as  the  square  of  the  distance,  to  retain  her  in  her
orbit  ?  To  ascertain  this  master-fact,  he  compared  the  space
through  which  heavy  bodies  fall,  in  a  second  of  time,  at  a  given
distance  from  the  centre  of  the  earth,  namely,  at  its  surface,  with
the  space  through  which  the  moon  falls,  as  it  were,  to  the  earth,
in  the  same  time,  while  revolving  in  a  circular  orbit.  He  was
absent  from  books  ;  and,  therefore,  adopted,  in  computing  the
earth's  diameter,  the  common  estimate  of  sixty  miles  to  a  degree
of  latitude  as  then  in  use  among  geographers  and  navigators.
The  result  of  his  calculations  did  not,  ot  course,  answer  his  ex
pectations  ;  hence,  he  concluded  that  some  other  cause,  beyond  the
reach  of  observation —  analogous,  perhaps,  to  the  vortices  of  Des
cartes — joined  its  action  to  that  of  the  power  of  gravity  upon  the
rnooil.  Though  by  no  means  satisfied,  he  yet  abandoned  awhile
further  inquiry,  and  remained  totally  silent  upon  the  subject.
These  rapid  marches  in  the  career  of  discovery,  combined  with
the  youth  of  Newton,  seem  to  evince  a  penetration  the  most
lively,  and

---

ate  an  objection
that  may  be  made  from  the  appearing  of  no  tail  in  such  comets  as  shine
but  with  a  faint  light,  as  if  the  secondary  rays  were  then  too  weak  to  af
fect  the  eyes,  and  for  that  reason  it  is  that  the  tails  of  the  fixed  stars  do
not  appear,  we  are  to  consider,  that  by  the  means  of  telescopes  the  light  of
the  fixed  stars  may  be  augmented  above  an  hundred  fold,  and  yet  no  tails
are  seen  ;  that  the  light  of  the  planets  is  yet  more  copious  without  any
488   THE  MATHEMATICAL  PRINCIPLES   [BOOK  111.
tail ;  but  that  comets  are  seen  sometimes  with  huge  tails,  when  the  light
of  their  heads  is  but  faint  and  dull.  For  so  it  happened  in  the  comet  of
the  year  1680,  when  in  the  month  of  December  it  was  scarcely  equal  in
light  to  the  stars  of  the  second  magnitude,  and  yet  emitted  a  notable  tail,
extending  to  the  length  of  40°,  50°,  60°,  or  703,  and  upwards  ;  and  after
wards,  on  the  27th  and  28th  of  January,  when  the  head  appeared  but  us
a  star  of  the  7th  magnitude,  yet  the  tail  (as  we  said  above),  with  a  light
that  was  sensible  enough,  though  faint,  was  stretched  out  to  6  or  7  degrees
in  length,  and  with  a  languishing  light  that  was  more  difficultly  seen,  even
to  .12°,  and  upwards.  But  on  the  9th  and  10th  of  February,  when  to  the
naked  eye  the  head  appeared  no  more,  through  a  telescope  I  viewed  the
tail  of  2°  in  length.  But  farther;  if  the  tail  was  owing  to  the  refrac
tion  of  the  celestial  matter,  and  did  deviate  from  the  opposition  of  the
sun,  according  to  the  figure  of  the  heavens,  that  deviation  in  the  same
places  of  the  heavens  should  be  always  directed  towards  the  same  parts.
Bu  n  e  comet  of  the  year  1680,  December  28d.  S^h.  P.  M.  at  London,  was
seen  in  X  8°  41',  with  la'itude  north  28°  6' ;  while  the  sun  was  in  V?  18°
26'.  And  the  cornet  of  the  year  1577,  December  29d.  was  in  X  8°  41',
with  latitude  north  28  40',  and  the  sin,  as  before,  in  about  V^  18°  26'.
In  both  cases  the  situation  of  the  earth  was  the  same,  and  the  comet  ap
peared  in  the  same  place  of  the  heavens  ;  yet  in  the  former  case  the  tail
of  the  comet  (as  well  by  my  observations  as  by  the  observations  of  others)
deviated  from  the  opposition  of  the  sun  towards  the  north  by  an  angle  of
4|-  degrees  ;  whereas  in  the  latter  there  was  (according  to  the  observations
of  Tychfi)  a  deviation  of  21  degrees  towards  the  south.  The  refraction,
therefore,  of  the  heavens  being  thus  disproved,  it  remains  that  the  pha-
tio'mena  of  the  tails  of  comets  must  be  derived  from  some  reflecting  matter.
And  that  the  tails  of  comets  do  arise  from  their  heads,  and  tend  towards
the  parts  opposite  to  the  sun,  is. farther  confirmed  from  the  laws  which
the  tails  observe.  As  that,  lying  in  the  planes  of  the  comets'  orbits
which  pass  tl trough  the  sun,  they  constantly  deviate  from  the  opposition
of  the  sun  towards  the  parts  which  the  comets'  heads  in  their  progress
along  these  orbits  have  left.  That  to  a  spectator,  placed  in  those  planes,
they  appear  in  the  parts  directly  opposite  to  the  sun  ;  but,  as  the  spectator
recedes  from  th  >se  planes,  their  deviation  begins  to  appear,  and  daily  be
comes  greater.  That  the  deviation,  cceteris  paribus,  appears  less  when
the  tail  is  more  oblique  to  the  orbit  of  the  comet,  as  well  as  when  the
head  of  the  comet  approaches  nearer  to  the  sun,  especially  if  the  angle  of
deviation  is  estimated  near  the  head  of  the  comet.  That  the  tails  which
have  no  deviation  appear  straight,  but  the  tails  which  deviate  are  like
wise  bended  into  a  certain  curvature.  That  this  curvature  is  greater  when
the  deviation  is  greater  ;  and  is  more  sensible  when  the  tail,  cceteris  pari-
bus  is  longer  ;  for  in  the  shorter  tails  the  curvature  is  hardly  to  be  p-jr-
HOOK   HI.]   or  NATURAL  PHILOSOPHY.   489
ccived.  That  the  angle  of  deviation  is  less  near  the  comet's  head,  but
greater  towards  the  other  end  of  the  tail ;  and  that  because  the  convex
side  of  the  tail  regards  the  parts  from  which  the  deviation  is  made,  and
which  lie  in  a  right  line  drawn  out  infinitely  from  the  sun  through  the
comet's  head.  And  that  the  tails  that  are  long  and  broad,  and  shine  with
a  stronger  light,  appear  more  resplendent  and  more  exactly  defined  on  the
convex  than  on  the  concave  side.  Upon  which  accounts  it  is  plain  that
the  phenomena  of  the  tails  of  comets  depend  upon  the  motions  of  their
heads,  and  by  no  means  upon  the  places  of  the  heavens  in  which  their
heads  are  seen  ;  and  that,  therefore,  the  tails  of  comets  do  not  proceed  from
the  refraction  of  the  heavens,  but  from  their  own  heads,  which  furnish  the
matter  that  forms  the  tail.  For,  as  in  our  air,  the  smoke  of  a  heated  body
ascends  either  perpendicularly  if  the  body  is  at  rest,  or  obliquely  if  the
body  is  moved  obliquely,  so  in  the  heavens,  where  all  bodies  gravitate  to
wards  the  sun,  smoke  and  vapour  must  (as  we  have  already  said)  ascend
from  the  sun,  and  either  rise  perpendicularly  if  the  smoking  body  is  at
rest,  or  obliquely  if  the  body,  in  all  the  progress  of  its  motion,  is  always
leaving  those  places  from  which  the  upper  or  higher  parts  of  the  vapour
had  risen  before  ;  and  that  obliquity  will  be  least  where  the  vapour  ascends
with  most  velocity,  to  wit,  near  the  smoking  body,  when  that  is  near  the
sun.  But,  because  the  obliquity  varies,  the  column  of  vapour  will  be  in-
curvated  ;  and  because  the  vapour  in  the  preceding  sides  is  something  more
recent,  that  is,  has  ascended  something  more  late  from  the  body,  it  will
therefore  be  something  more  dense  on  that  side,  and  must  on  that  account
reflect  more  light,  as  well  as  be  better  defined.  I  add  nothing  concerning
the  sudden  uncertain  agitation  of  the  tails  of  comets,  and  their  irregular
figures,  which  authors  sometimes  describe,  because  they  may  arise  from  the
mutations  of  our  air,  and  the  motions  of  our  clouds,  in  part  obscuring
those  tails  ;  or,  perhaps,  from  parts  of  the  Via  Laclea,  which  might  have
been  confounded  with  and  mistaken  for  parts  of  the  tails  of  the  comets  JIB
they  passed  by.
But  that  the  atmospheres  of  comets  may  furnish  a  supply  of  vapour
great  enough  to  fill  so  immense  spaces,  we  may  easily  understand  from  the
rari  ty  of  our  own  air ;  for  the  air  near  the  surface  of  our  earth  possesses
a  space  850  times  greater  than  water  of  the  same  weight  ;  arid  therefore
a  cylinder  of  air  850  feet  high  is  of  equal  weight  with  a  cylinder  of  water
of  the  same  breadth,  and  but  one  foot  high.  But  a  cylinder  of  air  reach
ing  to  the  top  of  the  atmosphere  is  of  equal  weight  with  a  cylinder  of
water  about  33  feet  high  :  and,  therefore,  if  from  the  whole  cylinder  of
air  the  lower  part  of  850  feet  high  is  taken  away,  the  remaining  upper
part  will  be  of  equal  weight  with  a  cylinder  of  water  32  feet  high  :  and
from  thence  (and  by  the  hypothesis,  confirmed  by  many  experiments,  that
the  compression  of  air  is  as  the  weight  of  the  incumbent  atmosphere,  and
400   THE    MATHEMATICAL    PRINCIPLES   [BOOK    III
that  the  force  of  gravity  is  reciprocally  as  the  square  of  the  distance  from
the  centre  of  the  earth)  raising  a  calculus,  by  Cor.  Prop.  XXII,  Book  II,
I  found,  that,  at  the  height  of  one  semi-diameter  of  the  earth,  reckoned
from  the  earth's  surface,  the  air  is  more  rare  than  with  us  in  u  far  greater
proportion  than  of  the  whole  space  within  the  orb  of  Saturn  to  a  spherical
space  of  one  inch  in  diameter  ;  and  therefore  if  a  sphere  of  our  air  of  but
one  inch  in  thickness  was  equally  rarefied  with  the  air  at  the  height  of
one  semi-diameter  of  the  earth  from  the  earth's  surface,  it  would  rill  all
the  regions  of  the  planets  to  the  orb  of  Saturn,  and  far  beyond  it.  Where
fore  since  the  air  at  greater  distances  is  immensely  rarefied,  and  the  coma
or  atmosphere  of  comets  is  ordinarily  about  ten  times  higher,  reckoning
from  their  centres,  than  the  surface  of  the  nucleus,  and  the  tails  rise  yet
higher,  they  must  therefore  be  exceedingly  rare  ;  and  though,  on  account
of  the  much  thicker  atmospheres  of  comets,  and  the  great  gravitation  of
their  bodies  towards  the  sun,  as  well  as  of  the  particles  of  their  air  and
vapours  mutually  one  towards  another,  it  may  happen  that  the  air  in  the
celestial  spaces  and  in  the  tails  of  comets  is  not  so  vastly  rarefied,  yet
from  this  computation  it  is  plain  that  a  very  small  quantity  of  air  and
vapour  is  abundantly  sufficient  to  produce  all  the  appearances  of  the  tails
of  comets  :  for  that  they  are,  indeed,  of  a  very  notable  rarity  appears  from
the  shining  of  the  stars  through  them.  The  atmosphere  of  the  earth,
illuminated  by  the  sun's  light,  though  but  of  a  few  miles  in  thickness,
quite  obscures  and  extinguishes  the  light  not  only  of  all  the  stars,  but
even  of  the  moon  itself;  whereas  the  smallest  stars  are  seen  to  shine
through  the  immense  thickness  of  the  tails  of  comets,  likewise  illuminated
by  the  sun,  without  the  least  diminution  of  their  splendor.  Nor  is  the
brightness  of  the  tails  of  most  comets  ordinarily  greater  than  that  of  our
air,  an  inch  or  two  in  thickness,  reflecting  in  a  darkened  room  the  light  of
the  sun-beams  let  in  by  a  hole  of  the  window-shutter.
And  we  may  pretty  nearly  determine  the  time  spent  during  the  ascent
of  the  vapour  from  the  comet's  head  to  the  extremity  of  the  tail,  by  draw
ing  a  right  line  from  the  extremity  of  the  tail  to  the  sun,  and  marking
the  place  where  that  right  line  intersects  the  comet's  orbit  :  for  the  vapour
that  is  now  in  the  extremity  of  the  tail,  if  it  has  ascended  in  a  right  line
from  the  sun,  must  have  begun  to  rise  from  the  head  at  the  time  when  the
head  was  in  the  point  of  intersection.  It  is  true,  the  vapour  does  not  rise
in  a  right  line  from  the  sun,  but,  retaining  the  motion  Avhich  it  had  from
the  comet  before  its  ascent,  and  compounding  that  motion  witli  its  motion
of  ascent,  arises  obliquely  ;  and,  therefore,  the  solution  of  the  Problem  will
be  more  exact,  if  we  draw  the  line  which  intersects  the  orbit  parallel  to
the  length  of  the  tail ;  or  rather  (because  of  the  curvilinear  motion  of  the
comet)  diverging  a  little  from  the  line  or  length  of  the  tail.  And  by
means  of  this  principle  I  found  that  the  vapour  which,  Ja/iutiry  25,  was
BOOK   III.]   OF    NATURAL    PHILOSOPHY.   491
in  the  extremity  of  the  tail,  had  begun  to  rise  from  the  head  before  De
cember  11,  and  therefore  had  spent  in  its  whole  ascent  45  days  ;  but  that
the  whole  tail  which  appeared  on  December  10  had  finished  its  ascent  in
the  space  of  the  two  days  then  elapsed  from  the  time  of  the  comet's  being
in  its  perihelion.  The  vapour,  therefore,  about  the  beginning  and  in  the
neighbourhood  of  the  sun  rose  with  the  greatest  velocity,  and  afterwards
continued  to  ascend  with  a  motion  constantly  retarded  by  its  own  gravity  ;
and  the  higher  it  ascended,  the  more  it  added  to  the  length  of  the  tail ;
and  while  the  tail  continued  to  be  seen,  it  was  made  up  of  almost  all  that
vapour  which  had  risen  since  the  time  of  the  comet's  being  in  its  perihe
lion  ;  nor  did  that  part  of  the  vapour  which  had  risen  first,  and  which
funned  the  extremity  of  the  tail,  cease  to  appear,  till  its  too  great  dis
tance,  as  well  from  the  sun,  from  which  it  received  its  li^it,  as  from  our
eyes,  rendered  it  invisible.  Whence  also  it  is  that  the  tails  of  other  comets
which  are  short  do  riot  rise  from  their  heads  with  a  swift  and  continued
motion,  and  soon  after  disappear,  but  are  permanent  and  lasting  columns
of  vapours  and  exhalations,  which,  ascending  from  the  heads  with  a  slow-
motion  of  many  days,  and  partaking  of  the  motion  of  the  heads  which
they  had  from  the  beginning,  continue  to  go  along  together  with  them
through  the  heavens.  From  whe-.ee  again  we  have  another  argument
proving  the  celestial  spaces  to  be  free,  and  without  resistance,  since  in
them  not  only  the  solid  bodies  of  the  planets  and  comets,  but  also  the  ex
tremely  rare  vapours  of  comets1  tails,  maintain  their  rapid  motions  with
great  freedom,  and  for  an  exceeding  long  time.
Kepler  ascribes  the  ascent  of  the  tails  of  the  comets  to  the  atmospheres
of  their  heads  :  and  their  direction  towards  the  parts  opposite  to  the  sun  to
the  action  of  the  rays  of  light  carrying  along  with  them  the  matter  of  the
comets'  tails ;  and  without  any  great  incongruity  we  may  suppose,  that,  in
so  free  spaces,  so  fine  a  matter  as  that  of  the  aether  may  yield  to  the  action
of  the  rays  of  the  sun's  light,  though  those  rays  are  not  able  sensibly  to
move  the  gross  substances  in  our  parts,  which  are  clogged  with  so  palpable
a  resistance.  Another  author  thinks  that  there  may  be  a  sort  of  particles
of  matter  endowed  with  a  principle  of  levity,  as  well  as  others  are  with  a
power  of  gravity  ;  that  the  matter  of  the  tails  of  comets  may  be  of  the
former  sort,  and  that  its  ascent  from  the  sun  may  be  owing  to  its  levity ;
but,  considering  that  the  gravity  of  terrestrial  bodies  is  as  the  matter  of
the  bodies,  and  therefore  can  be  neither  more  nor  less  in  the  same  quantity
of  matter,  I  am  inclined  to  believe  that  this  ascent  may  rather  proceed  from
the  rarefaction  of  the  matter  of  the  comets'  tails.  The  ascent  of  smoke  in
a  chimney  is  owing  to  the  impulse  of  the  air  with  which  it  is  entangled.
The  air  rarefied  by  heat  ascends,  because  its  specific  gravity  is  diminished,
and  in  its  ascent  carries  along  with  it  the  smoke  with  which  it  is  engaged ;
ind  why  may  not  the  tail  of  a  comet  rise  from  the  sun  after  the  same  man-
492   THE    MATHEMATICAL    PHINCIPLES   [BOOK    III.
ner  ?  For  the  sun's  rays  do  not  act  upon  the  mediums  which  they  per
vade  otherwise  than  by  reflection  and  refraction  ;  and  those  reflecting  par
ticles  heated  by  this  action,  heat  the  matter  of  the  aether  which  is  involved
with  them.  That  matter  is  rarefied  by  the  heat  which  it  acquires,  and  be-
oause,  by  this  rarefaction,  the  specific  gravity  with  which  it  tended  towards
the  sun  before  is  diminished,  it  will  ascend  therefrom,  and  carry  along  with
it  the  reflecting  particles  of  which  the  tail  of  the  comet  is  composed.  But
the  ascent  of  the  vapours  is  further  promoted  by  their  circumgyration
about  the  sun,  in  consequence  whereof  they  endeavour  to  recede  from  the
sun,  while  the  sun's  atmosphere  and  the  other  matter  of  the  heavens  are
either  altogether  quiescent,  or  are  only  moved  with  a  slower  circumgyra
tion  derived  from  the  rotation  of  the  sun.  And  these  are  the  causes  of  the
ascent  of  the  tails  of  the  comets  in  the  neighbourhood  of  the  sun,  where
their  orbits  are  bent  into  a  greater  curvature,  and  the  comets  themselves
are  plunged  into  the  denser  and  therefore  heavier  parts  of  the  sun's  atmos
phere  :  upon  which  account  they  do  then  emit  tails  of  an  huge  length ;  for
the  tails  which  then  arise,  retaining  their  own  proper  motion,  and  in  the
mean  time  gravitating  towards  the  sun,  must  be  revolved  in  ellipses  about
the  sun  in  like  manner  as  the  heads  are,  and  by  that  motion  must  always
accompany  the  heads,  and  freely  adhere  to  them.  For  the  gravitation  ot
the  vapours  towards  the  sun  can  no  more  force  the  tails  to  abandon  the
heads,  and  descend  to  the  sun,*than  the  gravitation  of  the  heads  can  oblige
them  to  fall  from  the  tails.  They  must  by  their  common  gravity  either
fall  together  towards  the  sun,  or  be  retarded  together  in  their  comii>ori  as
cent  therefrom  ;  and,  therefore  (whether  from  the  causes  already  described,
or  from  any  others),  the  tails  and  heads  of  comets  may  easily  acquire  and
freely  retain  any  position  one  to  the  other,  without  disturbance  or  impedi
ment  from  that  common  gravitation.
The  tails,  therefore,  that  rise  in  the  perihelion  positions  of  the  comets
will  go  along  with  their  heads  into  far  remote  parts,  and  together  with
the  heads  will  either  return  again  from  thence  to  us,  after  a  long  course  of
years,  or  rather  will  be  there  rarefied,  and  by  degrees  quite  vanish  away  ;
for  afterwards,  in  the  descent  of  the  heads  towards  the  sun,  new  short  tails
will  be  emitted  from  the  heads  with  a  slow  motion;  and  those  tails  by  de
grees  will  be  augmented  immensely,  especially  in  such  comets  as  in  their
perihelion  distances  descend  as  low  as  the  sun's  atmosphere  ;  for  all  vapour
in  those  free  spaces  is  in  a  perpetual  state  of  rarefaction  and  dilatation  ;
and  from  hence  it  is  that  the  tails  of  all  comets  are  broader  at  their  upper
extremity  than  near  their  heads.  And  it  is  not  unlikely  but  that  the  va
pour,  thus  perpetually  rarefied  and  dilated,  may  be  at  last  dissipated  and
scattered  through  the  whole  heavens,  and  by  little  and  little  be  attracted
towards  the  planets  by  its  gravity,  and  mixed  with  their  atmosphere;  for
as  the  seas  are  absolutely  necessary  to  the  constitution  of  our  earth,
BOOK    III.]   OF    NATURAL    PHILOSOPHY.   493
from  them,  the  sun,  by  its  heat,  may  exhale  a  sufficient  quantity  of  vapours,
which,  being  gathered  together  into  clouds,  may  drop  down  in  rain,  for
watering  of  the  earth,  and  for  the  production  and  nourishment  of  vegeta
bles;  or,  being  condensed  with  cold  on  the  tops  of  mountains  (as  some  phi
losophers  with  reason  judge),  may  run  down  in  springs  and  rivers;  so  for
the  conservation  of  the  seas,  and  fluids  of  the  planets,  comets  seem  to  be
required,  that,  from  their  exhalations  and  vapours  condensed,  the  wastes  of
the  planetary  fluids  spent  upon  vegetation  and  putrefaction,  and  converted
into  dry  earth,  may  be  continually  supplied  and  made  up;  for  all  vegeta
bles  entirely  derive  their  growths  from  fluids,  and  afterwards,  in  great
measure,  are  turned  into  dry  earth  by  putrefaction  :  and  a  sort  of  slime  is
always  found  to  settle  at  the  bottom  of  putrefied  fluids;  and  hence  it  is
that  the  bulk  of  the  solid  earth  is  continually  increased;  and  the  fluids,  if
they  are  not  supplied  from  without,  must  be  in  a  continual  decrease,
and  quite  fail  at  last.  I  suspect,  moreover,  that  it  is  chiefly  from  the
comets  that  spirit  comes,  which  is  indeed  the  smalles;  but  the  most  subtle
and  useful  part  of  our  air,  arid  so  much  required  to  sustain  the  life  of  all
things  with  us.
The  atmospheres  of  comets,  in  their  descent  towards  the  sun,  by  running
out  into  the  tails,  are  spent  and  diminished,  and  become  narrower,  at  least
on  that  side  which  regards  the  sun  ;  and  in  receding  from  the  sun,  when
they  less  run  out  into  the  tails,  they  are  again  enlarged,  if  Hevelins  has
justly  marked  their  appearances.  But  they  are  seen  least  of  all  just  after
they  have  been  most  heated  by  the  sun,  and  on  that  account  then  emit  the
longest  and  most  resplendent  tails;  and,  perhaps,  at  the  same  time,  the
nuclei  are  environed  with  a  denser  and  blacker  smoke  in  the  lowermost
parts  of  their  atmosphere  ;  for  smoke  that  is  raised  by  a  great  and  intense
heat  is  commonly  the  denser  and  blacker.  Thus  the  head  of  that  cornet
which  we  have  been  describing,  at  equal  distances  both  from  the  sun  and
from  the  earth,  appeared  darker  after  it  had  passed  by  its  perihelion  than
it  did  before  ;  for  in  the  month  of  December  it  was  commonly  compared
with  the  stars  of  the  third  magnitude,  but  in  November  with  those  of  the
first  or  second  ;  and  such  as  saw  both  appearances  have  described  the  first
as  of  another  and  greater  comet  than  the  second.  For,  November  19.  this
comet  appeared  to  a  young  man  at  Cambridge,  though  with  a  pale  and
dull  light,  yet  equal  to  Spica  Virg-inis ;  and  at  that  time  it  shone  with
greater  brightness  than  it  did  afterwards.  And  Montenari,  November  20,
et.  vet.  observed  it  larger  than  the  stars  of  the  first  magnitude,  its  tail
being  then  2  degrees  long.  And  Mr.  Storer  (by  letters  which  have  come
into  my  hands)  writes,  that  in  the  month  of  December,  when  the  tail  ap
peared  of  the  greatest  bulk  and  splendor,  the  head  was  but  small,  and  far
less  than  that  which  was  seen  in  the  month  of  November  before  sun- rising;
and,  conjecturing  at  the  cause  of  the  appearance,  he  judged  it  to  proceed
494   THE    MATHEMATICAL    PRINCIPLES   [BOOK    J  II
from  there  being  a  greater  quantity  of  matter  in  the  head  at  first,  which
was  afterwards  gradually  spent.
And,  which  farther  makes  for  the  same  purpose,  I  find,  that  the  heads  of
other  cornets,  which  did  put  forth  tails  of  the  greatest  bulk  and  splendor,
have  appeared  but  obscure  and  small.  For  in  Brazil,  March  5,  1 668,  7h.
P.  M.;  St.  N.  P.  Valentin  its  Esta.'tcws  saw  a  comet  near  the  horizon,  and
towards  the  south  west,  with  a  head  so  small  as  scarcely  to  be  discerned,
but  with  a  tail  above  measure  splendid,  so  that  the  reflection  thereof  from
the  sea  was  easily  seen  by  those  who  stood  upon  the  shore ;  and  it  looked
like  a  fiery  beam  extended  23°  in  length  from  the  west  to  south,  almost
parallel  to  the  horizon.  But  this  excessive  splendor  continued  only  three
days,  decreasing  apace  afterwards  ;  arid  while  the  splendor  was  decreasing,
the  bulk  of  the  tail  increased  :  whence  in  Portugal  it  is  said  to  have  taken
ap  one  quarter  of  the  heavens,  that  is,  45  degrees,  extending  from  west  to
3ast  with  a  very  notable  splendor,  though  the  whole  tail  was  not  seen  in
those  parts,  becar.sc  the  head  was  always  hid  under  the  horizon  :  and  from
the  increase  of  the  hulk  arid  decrease  of  the  splendor  of  the  tail,  it  appears
that  the  head  vis  then  in  its  recess  from  the  sun,  and  had  been  very  near
to  it  in  its  perihelion,  as  the  comet  of  1680  was.  And  we  read,  in  the
Saxon  Chronicle,  of  a  like  comet  appearing  in  the  year  1 106,  the  star
whereof  was  small  and  obscure  (as  that  of  1680),  but  the  splendour  of  its
tail  w^s  very  bright,  and  like  a  huge  fiery  beam  stretched  out  in  a  direc
tion  fetween  the  east  and  north,  as  Hevelius  has  it  also  from  Simeon,  the
monk  of  Durham.  This  comet  appeared  in  the  beginning  of  February.
about  the  evening,  and  towards  the  south  west  part  of  heaven  ;  frc-in
whence,  and  from  the  position  of  the  tail,  we  infer  that  the  head  was  near
the  sun.  Matthew  Paris  says,  //  was  distant  from  the  sun  by  about  a
cubit,  from,  three  of  the  clock  (rather  six)  till  nine,  putting  forth  a  long
tail.  Such  also  was  that  most  resplendent  comet  described  by  Aristotle,
lib.  1,  Meteor.  6.  The  head  whereof  could  not  be  seen,  because  it  had  set
before  the  sun,  or  at  least  was  hid  under  the  sun's  rays  ;  but  next  day
it  was  seen,  as  well  as  might  be  ;  for,  having  left  the  sun  but  a  very  lit
tle  way,  it  set  immediately  after  it.  And  the  scattered  light  of  the  head,
obscured  by  the  too  great  splendour  (of  the  tail)  did  not  yet  appear.  But
afterwards  (as  Aristotle  says)  when  the  splendour  (of  the  tail)  was  now
diminished  (the  head  of),  the  comet  recovered  its  native  brightness  ;  and
the  splendour  (of  its  tail)  reached  now  to  a  third  part  of  the  heavens  (that
is,  to  60°).  This  appearance  was  in  the  winter  season  (an.  4,  Olymp.
101),  and,  rising  tit  Orion's  girdle,  it  there  vanished  away.  It  is  true
that  the  comet  of  1618,  which  came  out  directly  from  under  the  sun's  rays
with  a  very  large  tail,  seemed  to  equal,  if  not  to  exceed,  the  stars  of  the
first  magnitude:  but,  then,  abundance  of  other  comets  have  appeared  yet
greater  than  this,  that  put  forth  shorter  tails;  some  of  which  are  said
BOOK    III.]   OF    NATURAL    PHILOSOPHY.   495
to  have  appeared  as  big  as  Jupiter,  others  as  big  as  Venus,  or  even  as
the  moon.
We  have  said,  that  comets  are  a  sort  of  planets  revolved  in  very  eccen
tric  orbits  about  the  sun  :  and  as,  in  the  planets  which  are  without  tails,
those  are  commonly  less  which  are  revolved  in  lesser  orbits,  and  nearer  to
the  sun,  so  in  comets  it  is  probable  that  those  which  in  their  perihelion  ap
proach  nearer  to  the  sun  ate  generally  of  less  magnitude,  that  they  may
not  agitate  the  sun  too  much  by  their  attractions.  But,  as  to  the  trans
verse  diameters  of  their  orbits,  and  the  periodic  times  of  their  revolutions,
1  leave  them  to  be  determined  by  comparing  comets  together  ^hich  after
long  intervals  of  time  return  again  in  the  same  orbit.  In  the  mean  time,
the  following  Proposition  may  give  some  light  in  that  inquiry.
PROPOSITION  XLIL     PROBLEM  XXII.
To  correct  a  cornet's  trajectory  found  as  above.
OPERATION  1.  Assume  that  position  of  the  plane  of  the  trajectory  which
was  determined  according  to  the  preceding  proposition;  and  select  three
places  of  the  comet,  deduced  from  very  accurate  observations,  and  at  great
distances  one  from  the  other.  Then  suppose  A  to  represent  the  time  be
tween  the  first  observation  and  the  second,  and  B  the  time  between  the
secoi.d  and  the  third  ;  but  it  will  be  convenient  that  in  one  of  those  times
the  comet  be  in  its  perigeon,  or  at  least  not  far  from  it.  From  those  ap
parent  places  find,  by  trigonometric  operations,  the  three  true  places  of  the
comet  in  that  assumed  plane  of  the  trajectory  ;  then  through  the  places
found,  and  about  the  centre  of  the  sun  as  the  focus,  describe  a  conic  section
by  arithmetical  operations,  according  to  Prop.  XXL,  Book  1.  Let  the
areas  of  this  figure  which  are  terminated  by  radii  drawn  from  the  sun  to
the  places  found  be  D  and  E;  to  wit,  I)  the  area  between  the  first  observa
tion  and  the  second,  and  E  the  area  between  the  second  and  third  ;  and  let
T  represent  the  whole  time  in  which  the  whole  area  D  +  E  should  be  de
scribed  with  the  velocity  of  the  comet  found  by  Prop.  XVI.,  Book  1.
OPER.  2.  Retaining  the  inclination  of  the  plane  of  the  trajectory  to  the
plane  of  the  ecliptic,  let  the  longitude  of  the  nodes  of  the  plane  of  the  tra
jectory  be  increased  by  the  addition  of  20  or  30  minutes,  which  call  P.
Then  from  the  aforesaid  three  observed  places  of  the  comet  let  the  three
true  places  be  found  (as  before)  in  this  new  plane;  as  also  the  orbit  passing
through  those  places,  and  the  two  areas  of  the  same  described  between  the
two  observations,  which  call  d  and  e  ;  and  let  t  be  the  whole  time  in  which
the  whole  area  d  +  e  should  be  described.
OrER.  3.  Retaining  the  longitude  of  the  nodes  in  the  first  operation,  let
the  inclination  of  the  plane  of  the  trajectory  to  the  plane  of  the  ecliptic  be
increased  by  adding  thereto  20'  or  30',  which  call  Q,.  Then  from  the
496   THE    MATHEMATICAL    PRINCIPLES   [BOOK    111
aforesaid  three  observed  apparent  places  of  the  comet  let  the  three  true
places  be  found  in  this  new  plane,  as  well  as  the  orbit  passing  through
them,  and  the  two  areas  of  the  same  described  between  the  observation,
which  call  d  and  £ ;  and  let  r  be  the  whole  time  in  which  the  whole  area
(5  -4-  £  should  be  described.
Then  taking  C  to  1  as  A  to  B  ;  and  G  to  1  as  D  to  E ;  and  g  to  1  as
d  to  e;  and  y  to  1  as  cJ  to  c;  let  S  be  the  true  time  between  the  first  ob
servation  and  the  third  ;  and,  observing  well  the  signs  +  and  — ,  let  such
numbers  m  and  n  be  found  out  as  will  make  2G  —  2C,  =  raG  —  m§
+  nG  —  uy  ;  and  2T  —  28  =  mT  -—  nil  +  nT  —  nr.  And  if,  in
the  first  operation,  I  represents  the  inclination  of  the  plane  of  the  trajec
tory  to  the  plane  of  the  ecliptic,  and  K  the  longitude  of  either  node,  then
I  +  7/Q  will  be  the  true  inclination  of  the  plane  of  the  trajectory  to  the
plane  of  the  ecliptic,  and  K  +  mP  the  true  longitude  of  the  node.  And.
lastly,  if  in  the  first,  second,  and  third  operations,  the  quantities  R,  r,  and
p,  represent  the  parameters  of  the  trajectory,  and  the  quantities  -7", -7,  -, LA     I      A.
the  transverse  diameters  of  the  same,  then  R  -f  mr  —  mR  +  up  —  /?R
will  be  the  true  parameter,  and  = —  •    ; — - —  :    — .-    =-  will  be  the L  +  inl  —  mL   +  nh  —  w.L
true  transverse  diameter  of  the  trajectory  which  the  comet  describes  ;  and
from  the  transverse  diameter  given  the  periodic  time  of  the  comet  is  also
given.  Q.E.I.  But  the  periodic  times  of  the  revolutions  of  comets,  and
the  transverse  diameters  of  their  orbits,  cannot  be  accurately  enough  de
termined  but  by  comparing  comets  together  which  appear  at  different
times.  If,  after  equal  intervals  of  time,  several  comets  are  found  to  have
described  the  same  orbit,  we  may  thence  conclude  that  they  are  all  but  one
and  the  same  comet  revolved  in  the  same  orbit  ;  and  then  from  the  times
of  their  revolutions  the  transverse  diameters  of  their  orbits  will  be  given,
and  from  those  diameters  the  elliptic  orbits  themselves  will  be  determined.
To  this  purpose  the  trajectories  of  many  comets  ought  to  be  computed,
supposing  those  trajectories  to  be  parabolic;  for  such  trajectories  will
always  nearly  agree  with  the  ph&nomena,  as  appears  not  only  from  the
parabolic  trajectory  of  the  comet  of  the  year  1680,  which  I  compared
above  with  the  observations,  but  likewise  from  that  of  the  notable  comet
which  appeared  in  the  year  1664  and  1665,  and  was  observed  by  Hevelins,
who,  from  his  own  observations,  calculated  the  longitudes  and  l

---

ce  of  this  Book
into  the  form  of  Propositions  (in  the  mathematical  way),  which  should  be
read  by  those  only  who  had  first  made  themselves  masters  of  the  principles
established  in  the  preceding  Books  :  not  that  I  would  advise  any  one  to  the
previous  study  of  every  Proposition  of  those  Books  ;  for  they  abound  with
such  as  might  cost  too  much  time,  even  to  readers  of  good  mathematical
learning.  It  is  enough  if  one  carefully  reads  the  Definitions,  the  Laws  of
Motion,  and  the  first  three  Sections  of  the  first  Book.  He  may  then  pass
on  to  this  Book,  and  consult  such  of  the  remaining  Propositions  of  the
first  two  Books,  as  the  references  in  this,  and  his  occasions,  shall  require.
384   THE    MATHEMATICAL    PRINCIPLES   [BOOK    III.
RULES  OF  REASONING  IN  PHILOSOPHY,
RULE  I.
We  are  I'o  admit  no  more  causes  of  natural  things  than  such  as  are  both
true  and  sufficient  to  explain  their  appearances.
To  this  purpose  the  philosophers  say  that  Nature  does  nothing  in  vain,
and  more  is  in  vain  when  less  will  serve  ;  for  Nature  is  pleased  with  sim
plicity,  and  affects  not  the  pomp  of  superfluous  causes.
RULE  II.
Therefore  to  the  same  natural  effects  we  must,  as  far  as  possible,  assign
the  same  causes.
As  to  respiration  in  a  man  and  in  a  beast;  the  descent  of  stones  in  Europe
and  in  America  ;  the  light  of  our  culinary  fire  and  of  the  sun  ;  the  reflec
tion  of  light  in  the  earth,  and  in  the  planets.
RULE  III.
The  qualities  of  bodies,  which  admit  neither  intension  nor  remission  oj
degrees,  and  which  are  found  to  belong  to  all  bodies  within  the  reach
of  our  experiments,  are  to  be  esteemed  the  universal  qualities  of  all
bodies  whatsoever.
For  since  the  qualities  of  bodies  are  only  known  to  us  by  experiments,  we
are  to  hold  for  universal  all  such  as  universally  agree  with  experiments  ;
nnd  such  as  are  not  liable  to  diminution  can  never  be  quite  taken  away.
We  are  certainly  not  to  relinquish  the  evidence  of  experiments  for  the  sake
of  dreams  and  vain  fictions  of  our  own  devising ;  nor  are  we  to  recede  from
the  analogy  of  Nature,  which  uses  to  be  simple,  and  always  consonant  to
itself.  We  no  other  way  know  the  extension  of  bodies  than  by  our  senses,
nor  do  these  reach  it  in  all  bodies;  but  because  we  perceive  extension  in
all  that  are  sensible,  therefore  we  ascribe  it  universally  to  all  others  also.
That  abundance  of  bodies  are  hard,  we  learn  by  experience  ;  and  because
the  hardness  of  the  whole  arises  from  the  hardness  of  the  parts,  we  therefore
justly  infer  the  hardness  of  the  undivided  particles  not  only  of  the  bodies
we  feel  but  of  all  others.  That  all  bodies  are  impenetrable,  we  gather  not
from  reason,  but  from  sensation.  The  bodies  which  we  handle  we  find  im
penetrable,  and  thence  conclude  impenetrability  to  be  an  universal  property
of  all  bodies  whatsoever.  That  all  bodies  are  rnoveable,  and  endowed  with
certain  powers  (which  we  call  the  vires  inertias]  of  persevering  in  their  mo
tion,  or  in  their  rest,  we  only  infer  from  the  like  properties  observed  in  the
BOOK    1II.J   OF    NATURAL    PHILOSOPHY.   385
bodies  which  we  have  seen.  The  extension,  hardness,  impenetrability,  mo
bility,  and  vis  inertia  of  the  whole,  result  from  the  extension,  hardness,
impenetrability,  mobility,  and  vires  inertia  of  the  parts;  and  thence  we
conclude  the  least  particles  of  all  bodies  to  be  also  all  extended,  and  hard
and  impenetrable,  and  moveable,  and  endowed  with  their  proper  vires  inertia.
And  this  is  the  foundation  of  all  philosophy.  Moreover,  that  the  divided
but  contiguous  particles  of  bodies  may  be  separated  from  one  another,  is
matter  of  observation  ;  and,  in  the  particles  that  remain  undivided,  our
minds  are  able  to  distinguish  yet  lesser  parts,  as  is  mathematically  demon
strated.  But  whether  the  parts  so  distinguished,  and  not  yet  divided,  may,
by  the  powers  of  Nature,  be  actually  divided  and  separated  from  one  an
other,  we  cannot  certainly  determine.  Yet,  had  we  the  proof  of  but  one
experiment  that  any  undivided  particle,  in  breaking  a  hard  and  solid  body,
suffered  a  division,  we  might  by  virtue  of  this  rule  conclude  that  the  un
divided  as  well  as  the  divided  particles  may  be  divided  and  actually  sep
arated  to  infinity.
Lastly,  if  it  universally  appears,  by  experiments  and  astronomical  obser
vations,  that  all  bodies  about  the  earth  gravitate  towards  the  earth,  and
that  in  proportion  to  the  quantity  of  matter  which  they  severally  contain  ;
that  the  moon  likewise,  according  to  the  quantity  of  its  matter,  gravitates
towards  the  earth ;  that,  on  the  other  hand,  our  sea  gravitates  towards  the
moon  ;  and  all  the  planets  mutually  one  towards  another  ;  and  the  comets
in  like  manner  towards  the  sun  ;  we  must,  in  consequence  of  this  rule,  uni
versally  allow  that  all  bodies  whatsoever  are  endowed  with  a  principle  ot
mutual  gravitation.  For  the  argument  from  the  appearances  concludes  with
more  force  for  the  universal  gravitation  of  all  bodies  than  for  their  impen
etrability  ;  of  which,  among  those  in  the  celestial  regions,  we  have  no  ex
periments,  nor  any  manner  of  observation.  Not  that  I  affirm  gravity  to  be
essential  to  bodies  :  by  their  vis  insita  I  mean  nothing  but  their  vis  iiicrticz.
This  is  immutable.  Their  gravity  is  diminished  as  they  recede  from  the
earth.
RULE  IV.
In  experimental  philosophy  we  are  to  look  upon  propositions  collected  by
general  induction  from,  phenomena  as  accurately  or  very  nearly  true,
notwithstanding  any  contrary  hypotheses  that  may  be  imagined,  till
such  time  as  other  phenomena  occur,  by  which  they  may  either  be  made
more  accurate,  or  liable  to  exceptions.
This  rule  we  must  follow,  that  the  argument  of  induction  may  not  bf
evaded  by  hypotheses.  25
386  THE    MATHEMATICAL    PRINCIPLES  [BooK  III.
PHENOMENA,  OR  APPEARANCES,
PHENOMENON  I.
That  the  circumjovial  planets,  by  radii  drawn  to  Jupiter's  centre,  de
scribe  areas  proportional  to  the  times  of  description ;  and  that  their
periodic  times,  the  fixed  stars  being  at  rest,  are  in  the  sesquiplicate
proportion  of  their  distances  from,  its  centre.
This  we  know  from  astronomical  observations.  For  the  orbits  of  these
planets  differ  but  insensibly  from  circles  concentric  to  Jupiter ;  and  their
motions  in  those  circles  are  found  to  be  uniform.  And  all  astronomers
agree  that  their  periodic  times  are  in  the  sesquiplicate  proportion  of  the
semi-diameters  of  their  orbits;  and  so  it  manifestly  appears  from  the  fol-
1  owing  table.  The  periodic  times  of  the  satellites  of  Jupiter.
H  18h.  27'.  34".     3d.  13h.  13'  42".    7d.  31'.  42'  36".     16d.  16h.  32'  9".
The  distances  of  the  satellites  from  Jupiter's  centre.
From  the  observations  of  1  2  3  4
Borelli
5$  8|
14  24?       1  . Townly  by  the  Microm.     .     .     .
Cassini  by  the  Telescope    .     .     .
Cassini  by  the  cclip.  of  the  satel.  .  5,52 5
5|
8,78 8
9
13,47
13
14ff
*•»!            1
24,72    ]     semi-diameter  of
23                       Jupiter.
25A    J
From  the  periodic  times  5,667  9,017  14,384  25,299
Mr.  Pound  has  determined,  by  the  help  of  excellent  micrometers,  the
diameters  of  Jupiter  and  the  elongation  of  its  satellites  after  the  following
manner.  The  greatest  heliocentric  elongation  of  the  fourth  satellite  from
Tupiter's  centre  was  taken  with  a  micrometer  in  a  15  feet  telescope,  and  at
the  mean  distance  of  Jupiter  from  the  earth  was  found  about  8'  16".  The
elongation  of  the  third  satellite  was  taken  with  a  micrometer  in  a  telescope
of  123  feet,  and  at  the  same  distance  of  Jupiter  from  the  earth  was  found
4'  42".  The  greatest  elongations  of  the  other  satellites,  at  the  same  dis
tance  of  Jupiter  from  the  earth,  are  found  from  the  periodic  times  to  be  2'
56"  47'",  and  1'  51"  6'".
The  diameter  of  Jupiter  taken  with  the  micrometer  in  a  123  feet  tele
scope  several  times,  and  reduced  to  Jupiter's  mean  distance  from  the  earth,
proved  always  less  than  40",  never  less  than  38",  generally  39".  This  di
ameter  in  shorter  telescopes  is  40",  or  41";  for  Jupiter's  light  is  a  little
dilated  by  the  unequal  refrangibility  of  the  rays,'  and  this  dilatation  bears
3  less  ratio  to  the  diameter  of  Jupiter  in  the  longer  and  more  perfect  tele-
escopes  than  in  those  which  are  shorter  and  less  perfect.  The  times  :»i
HOOK.    III.]   OF    NATURAL    PHILOSOPHY   387
which  two  satellites,  the  first  and  the  third,  passed  over  Jupiter's  body,  were
observed,  from  the  beginning  of  the  ingress  to  the  beginning  of  the  egress,
and  from  the  complete  ingress  to  the  complete  egress,  with  the  long  tele
scope.  And  from  the  transit  of  the  first  satellite,  the  diameter  of  Jupiter
at  its  mean  distance  from  the  earth  came  forth  37 J-".  and  from  the  transit
of  the  third  371".  There  was  observed  also  the  time  in  which  the  shadow
of  the  first  satellite  passed  over  Jupiter's  body,  and  thence  the  diameter  of
Jupiter  at  its  mean  distance  from  the  earth  came  out  about  37".  Let  us
suppose  its  diameter  to  be  37}"  very  nearly,  and  then  the  greatest  elonga
tions  of  the  first,  second,  third,  and  fourth  satellite  will  be  respectively
equal  to  5,965,  9,494,  15,141,  and  26,63  semi-diameters  of  Jupiter.
PHENOMENON  II.
Tkat  the.  circumsalurnal  planets,  by  radii  drawn,  to  Saturtfs  centre,  de
scribe  areas  proportional  to  the  times  of  description  ;  and  that  their
periodic  times,  the  fixed  stars  being  at  rest,  are  in  the  sesqniplicata
proportion  uf  their  distances  from  its  centre.
For,  as  Cassiui  from  his  own  observations  has  determined,  theii  distan
ces  from  Saturn's  centre  and  their  periodic  times  are  as  follow.
The  periodic  times  of  the  satellites  of  Saturn.
ld.  2lh.  IS'  27".    2d.  17h.  41'  22".     4d.  12".  25'  12".     15d.  22^.  41'  14",
79'1.  71'.  48'  00".
The  distances  of  the  satellites  from  Saturn's  centre,  in  semi-diameters  oj
itv  ring'.
From  observations     li-».          2f          3|.          8.         24
From  the  periodic  times     .     .     .  1,93.         2,47.       3,45.        8.         23.35.
The  greatest  elongation  of  the  fourth  satellite  from  Saturn's  centre  is
commonly  determined  from  the  observations  to  be  eight  of  th-»se  semi-
diameters  very  nearly.  But  the  greatest  elongation  of  this  satellite  from
Saturn's  centre,  when  taken  with  an  excellent  micrometer  iuMr../fuyg'en8>
telescope  of  123  feet,  appeared  to  be  eight  semi-diameters  and  T7-0  of  a  semi-
diameter.  And  from  this  observation  arid  the  periodic  times  the  distances
of  the  satellites  from  Saturn's  centre  in  serni-diameters  of  the  ring  are  2.1.
2,69.  3,75.  8,7.  and  25,35.  The  diameter  of  Saturn  observed  in  the  same
telescope  was  found  to  be  to  the  diameter  of  the  ring  as  3  to  7 ;  and  the
diameter  of  the  ring,  May  28-29,  1719,  was  found  to  be  43" ;  and  th:*nce
the  diameter  of  the  ring  when  Saturn  is  at  its  mean  distance  from  the
earth  is  42",  and  the  diameter  of  Saturn  18".  These  things  appear  so  in
very  long  and  excellent  telescopes,  because  in  such  telescopes  the  apparent
magnitudes  of  the  heavenly  bodies  bear  a  greater  proportion  to  the  dilata
tion  of  light  in  the  extremities  of  those  bodies  than  in  shorter  telescopes.
3S8   THE    MATHEMATICAL    PRINCIPLES   [HoOK    III
If  we,  then,  reject  all  the  spurious  light,  the  diameter  of  Saturn  will  not
amount  to  more  than  16".
PHENOMENON  III.
0
That  the  five  primary  planets,  Mercury,  Venus,  Mars,  Jupiter,  and  Sat
urn,  with  their  several  orbits,  encompass  the  sun.
That  Mercury  and  Venus  revolve  about  the  sun,  is  evident  from  their
moon-like  appearances.  When  they  shine  out  with  a  full  face,  they  are,  in
respect  of  us,  beyond  or  above  the  sun  ;  when  they  appear  half  full,  they
are  about  the  same  height  on  one  side  or  other  of  the  sun  ;  when  horned,
they  are  below  or  between  us  and  the  sun  ;  and  they  are  sometimes,  when
directly  under,  seen  like  spots  traversing  the  sun's  disk.  That  Mars  sur
rounds  the  sun,  is  as  plain  from  its  full  face  when  near  its  conjunction  with
the  sun.  and  from  the  gibbous  figure  which  it  shews  in  its  quadratures.
And  the  same  thing  is  demonstrable  of  Jupiter  and  Saturn,  from  their  ap
pearing  full  in  all  situations  ;  for  the  shadows  of  their  satellites  that  appear
sometimes  upon  their  disks  make  it  plain  that  the  light  they  shine  with  is
not  their  own,  but  borrowed  from  the  sun.
PHENOMENON  IV.
That  the  fixed  stars  being  at  rest,  the  periodic  times  of  the  five  primary
planets,  and  (whether  of  the  suit  about  the  earth,  or)  of  the  earth  about
the  sun,  are  in  the  sesquiplicate  proportion  of  their  mean  distances
from  the  sun.
This  proportion,  first  observed  by  Kepler,  is  now  received  by  all  astron
omers  ;  for  the  periodic  times  are  the  same,  and  the  dimensions  of  the  orbits
are  the  same,  whether  the  sun  revolves  about  the  earth,  or  the  earth  about
the  sun.  And  as  to  the  measures  of  the  periodic  times,  all  astronomers  are
agreed  about  them.  But  for  the  dimensions  of  the  orbits,  Kepler  and  Bul-
lialdns,  above  all  others,  have  determined  them  from  observations  with  the
greatest  accuracy  ;  and  the  mean  distances  corresponding  to  the  periodic
times  differ  but  insensibly  from  those  which  they  have  assigned,  and  for
the  most  part  fall  in  between  them  ;  as  we  may  see  from  the  following  table.
The  periodic  times  with  respect  to  the  fixed  stars,  of  the  planets  and  earth
revolving  about  the  sun.  in  days  and  decimal  parts  of  a  day.
*   ^   *   $   ?   *
10759,275.    4332,514.     686,9785.    365,2565.     224,6176.     87,9692.
The  mean  distances  of  the  planets  and  of  the  earth  from  the  sun.
*   V   I
According  to  Kepler     951000.     519650.     152350.
to  Bullialdus     954198.     522520.     152350.
to  the  periodic  times      ....  954006.     520096.     152369
BOOK    III.]   OF    NATURAL    PHILOSOPHY.   389
J   ?   *
According  to  Kepler     100000.     72400.     38806
"   to  Bnllialdus  ...         .     •     .     .  100000.     72398.     38585
"   to  the  periodic  times     100000.     72333.     38710.
As  to  Mercury  and  Venus,  there  can  be  no  doubt  about  their  distances
from  the  sun  ;  for  they  are  determined  by  the  elongations  of  those  planets
from  the  sun  ;  and  for  the  distances  of  the  superior  planets,  all  dispute  is
cut  off  by  the  eclipses  of  the  satellites  of  Jupiter.  For  by  those  eclipses
the  position  of  the  shadow  which  Jupiter  projects  is  determined  ;  whence
we  have  the  heliocentric  longitude  of  Jupiter.  And  from  its  helio
centric  and  geocentric  longitudes  compared  together,  we  determine  its
distance.
PHENOMENON  V.
Then  the  primary  planets,  by  radii  drawn  to  the  earth,  describe  areas  no
wise  proportional  to  the  times  ;  but  that  the  areas  which  they  describe
by  radii  drawn  to  the  snn  are  proportional  to  the  times  of  descrip
tion.
For  to  the  earth  they  appear  sometimes  direct,  sometimes  stationary,
nay,  and  sometimes  retrograde.  But  from  the  sun  they  are  always  seen
direct,  and  to  proceed  with  a  motion  nearly  uniform,  that  is  to  say,  a  little
swifter  in  the  perihelion  and  a  little  slower  in  the  aphelion  distances,  so  as
to  maintain  an  equality  in  the  description  of  the  areas.  This  a  noted
proposition  among  astronomers,  and  particularly  demonstrable  in  Jupiter,
from  the  eclipses  of  his  satellites;  by  the  help  of  which  eclipses,  as  we  have
said,  the  heliocentric  longitudes  of  that  planet,  and  its  distances  from  the
sun,  are  determined.  PHENOMENON  VI.
That  the  moon,  by  a  radius  drawn  to  the  earths  centre,  describes  an  area
proportional  to  the  time  of  description.
This  we  gather  from  the  apparent  motion  of  the  moon,  compared  with
its  apparent  diameter.  It  is  true  that  the  motion  of  the  moon  is  a  little
disturbed  by  the  action  of  the  sun  :  but  in  laying  down  these  Phenomena
I  neglect  those  imall  and  inconsiderable  errors.
390   THE    MATHEMATICAL    PRINCIPLES   [BOOK    III
PROPOSITIONS-
PROPOSITION  I.     THEOREM  I.
That  the  forces  by  which  the  circumjovial  planets  are  continually  drawn
off  from  rectilinear  motions,  and  retained  in  their  proper  orbits,  tend
to  Jupiter's  centre  ;  and  are  reciprocally  as  the  squares  of  the  distances
of  the  places  of  those  planets/ro?/i  that  centre.
The  former  part  of  this  Proposition  appears  from  Pham.  I,  and  Prop.
II  or  III,  Book  I :  the  latter  from  Phaen.  I,  and  Cor.  6,  Prop.  IV,  of  the  same
Book.
The  same  thing  we  are  to  understand  of  the  planets  which  encompass
Saturn,  by  Phaon.  II.
PROPOSITION  II.     THEOREM  II.
That  the  forces  by  which  the  primary  planets  are  continually  drawn  off
from  rectilinear  motions,  and  retained  in  their  proper  orbits,  tend  to
the  sun.  ;  and  are  reciprocally  as  the  squares  of  the  distances  of  the
places  of  those  planets  from  the  sun's  centre.
The  former  part  of  the  Proposition  is  manifest  from  Phasn.  V,  and
Prop.  II,  Book  I ;  the  latter  from  Phaen.  IV,  and  Cor.  6,  Prop.  IV,  of  the
same  Book.  But  this  part  of  the  Proposition  is,  with  great  accuracy,  de
monstrable  from  the  quiescence  of  the  aphelion  points ;  for  a  very  small
aberration  from  the  reciprocal  duplicate  proportion  would  (by  Cor.  1,  Prop.
XLV,  Book  I)  produce  a  motion  of  the  apsides  sensible  enough  in  every
single  revolution,  and  in  many  of  them  enormously  great.
PROPOSITION  III.     THEOREM  III.
That  the  force  by  which  the  moon  is  retained  in  its  orbit  tends  to  the
earth  ;  and  is  reciprocally  as  the  square  of  the  distance  of  its  plac>>,
from  the  earths  centre.
The  former  part  of  the  Proposition  is  evident  from  Pha3n.  VI,  and  Prop.
II  or  III,  Book  I ;  the  latter  from  the  very  slow  motion  of  the  moon's  apo
gee;  which  in  every  single  revolution  amounting  but  to  3°  3'  in  conse-
quentia,  may  be  neglected.  For  (by  Cor.  1.  Prop.  XLV,  Book  I)  it  ap
pears,  that,  if  the  distance  of  the  moon  from  the  earth's  centre  is  to  the
semi-diameter  of  the  earth  as  D  to  1,  the  force,  from  which  such  a  motion
will  result,  is  reciprocally  as  D2^f  3,  i.  e.,  reciprocally  as  the  power  of  D,
whose  exponent  is  2^^  ;  that  is  to  say,  in  the  proportion  of  the  distance
something  greater  than  reciprocally  duplicate,  but  which  comes  59f  time?
nearer  to  the  duplicate  than  to  the  triplicate  proportion.  But  in  regard
that  this  motion  is  owinsr  to  the  action  of  the  sun  (as  we  shall  afterwards
BOOK  III.]   OF    NATURAL    PHILOSOPHY.   391
shew),  it  is  here  to  be  neglected.  The  action  of  the  sun,  attracting  the
moon  from  the  earth,  is  nearly  as  the  moon's  distance  from  the  earth ;  and
therefore  (by  what  we  have  shewed  in  Cor.  2,  Prop.  XLV.  Book  I)  is  to  the
centripetal  force  of  the  moon  as  2  to  357,45,  or  nearly  so ;  that  is,  as  1  to
178£  f-  .  And  if  we  neglect  so  inconsiderable  a  force  of  the  sun,  the  re
maining  force,  by  which  the  moon  is  retained  in  its  orb,  will  be  recipro
cally  as  D2.  This  will  yet  more  fully  appear  from  comparing  this  force
with  the  force  of  gravity,  as  is  done  in  the  next  Proposition.
COR.  If  we  augment  the  mean  centripetal  force  by  which  the  moon  is
retained  in  its  orb,  first  in  the  proportion  of  177%$  to  178ff,  and  then  in
the  duplicate  proportion  of  the  semi-diameter  of  the  earth  to  the  mean  dis
tance  of  the  centres  of  the  moon  and  earth,  we  shall  have  the  centripetal
force  of  the  moon  at  the  surface  of  the  earth  ;  supposing  this  force,  in  de
scending  to  the  earth's  surface,  continually  to  increase  in  the  reciprocal
duplicate  proportion  of  the  height.
PROPOSITION  IV.     THEOREM  IV.
That  the  moon  gravitates  towards  the  earth,  and  by  thejorce  oj  gravity
is  continually  drawn  off  from  a  rectilinear  motion,  and  retained  in
its  orbit.
The  mean  distance  of  the  moon  from  the  earth  in  the  syzygies  in  semi-
diameters  of  the  earth,  is,  according  to  Ptolemy  and  most  astronomers,
59  :  according  to  Vendelin  and  Huygens,  60  ;  to  Copernicus,  60 1 ;  to
Street,  60| ;  and  to  Tycho,  56|.  But  Tycho,  and  all  that  follow  his  ta
bles  of  refraction,  making  the  refractions  of  the  sun  and  moon  (altogether
against  the  nature  of  light)  to  exceed  the  refractions  of  the  fixed  stars,  and
that  by  four  or  five  minutes  near  the  horizon,  did  thereby  increase  the
moon's  horizontal  parallax  by  a  like  number  of  minutes,  that  is,  by  a
twelfth  or  fifteenth  part  of  the  whole  parallax.  Correct  this  error,  and
the  distance  will  become  about  60^  semi-diameters  of  the  earth,  near  to
what  others  have  assigned.  Let  us  assume  the  mean  distance  of  60  diam
eters  in  the  syzygies ;  and  suppose  one  revolution  of  the  moon,  in  respect
of  the  fixed  stars,  to  be  completed  in  27d.  7h.  43',  as  astronomers  have  de
termined  ;  and  the  circumference  of  the  earth  to  amount  to  123249600
Paris  feet,  as  the  French  have  found  by  mensuration.  And  now  if  we
imagine  the  moon,  deprived  of  all  motion,  to  be  let  go,  so  as  to  descend
towards  the  earth  with  the  impulse  of  all  that  force  by  which  (by  Cor.
Prop.  Ill)  it  is  retained  in  its  orb,  it  will  in  the  space  of  one  minute  of  time,
describe  in  its  fall  15T^  Paris  feet.  This  we  gather  by  a  calculus,  founded
either  upon  Prop.  XXXVI,  Book  [,  or  (which  comes  to  the  same  thing;
upon  Cor.  9,  Prop.  IV,  of  the  same  Book.  For  the  versed  sine  of  that  arc,
which  the  moon,  in  the  space  of  one  minute  of  time,  would  by  its  mean
392   THE    MATHEMATICAL    PRINCIPLES   [BOOK    III
motion  describe  at  the  distance  of  60  seini-diameters  of  the  earth,  is  nearly
15^  Paris  feet,  or  more  accurately  15  feet,  1  inch,  and  1  line  £.  Where
fore,  since  that  force,  in  approaching  to  the  earth,  increases  in  the  recipro
cal  duplicate  proportion  of  the  distance,  and,  upon  that  account,  at  the
surface  of  the  earth,  is  60  X  60  times  greater  than  at  the  moon,  a  body
in  our  regions,  falling  with  that  force,  ought  in  the  space  of  one  minute  of
time,  to  describe  60  X  60  X  15T]¥  Paris  feet;  and,  in  the  space  of  one  sec
ond  of  time,  to  describe  15 ,\  of  those  feet;  or  more  accurately  15  feet,  1
inch,  and  1  line  f .  And  with  this  very  force  we  actually  find  that  bodies
here  upon  earth  do  really  descend  :  for  a  pendulum  oscillating  seconds  in
the  latitude  of  Paris  will  be  3  Paris  feet,  and  8  lines  1  in  length,  as  Mr.
Hu.y  veus  has  observed.  And  the  space  which  a  heavy  body  describes
by  falling  in  one  second  of  time  is  to  half  the  length  of  this  pendulum  in
the  duplicate  ratio  of  the  circumference  of  a  circie  to  its  diameter  (as  Mr.
Htiy^ens  has  also  shewn),  and  is  therefore  15  Paris  feet,  I  inch,  1  line  J.
And  therefore  the  force  by  which  the  moon  is  retained  in  its  orbit  becomes,
at  the  very  surface  of  the  earth,  equal  to  the  force  of  gravity  which  we  ob
serve  in  heavy  bodies  there.  And  therefore  (by  Rule  I  and  II)  the  force  by
which  the  moon  is  retained  in  its  orbit  is  that  very  same  force  which  we
commonly  call  gravity  ;  for,  were  gravity  another  force  different  from  that,
then  bodies  descending  to  the  earth  with  the  joint  impulse  of  both  forces
would  fall  with  a  double  velocity,  and  in  the  space  of  one  second  of  time
would  describe  30^  Paris  feet ;  altogether  against  experience.
This  calculus  is  founded  on  the  hypothesis  of  the  earth's  standing  still  ;
for  if  both  earth  and  moon  move  about  the  sun.  and  at  the  same  time  about
their  common  centre  of  gravity,  the  distance  of  the  centres  of  the  moon  and
earth  from  one  another  will  be  6(H  semi-diameters  of  the  earth  ;  as  may
be  found  by  a  computation  from  Prop.  LX,  Book  I.
SCHOLIUM.
The  demonstration  of  this  Proposition  may  be  more  diffusely  explained
after  the  following  manner.  Suppose  several  moons  to  revolve  about  the
earth,  as  in  the  system  of  Jupiter  or  Saturn  :  the  periodic  times  of  these
moons  (by  the  argument  of  induction)  would  observe  the  same  law  which
Kepler  found  to  obtain  among  the  planets  ;  and  therefore  their  centripetal
forces  would  be  reciprocally  as  the  squares  of  the  distances  from  the  centre
of  the  earth,  by  Prop.  I,  of  this  Book.  Now  if  the  lowest  of  these  were
very  small,  and  were  so  near  the  earth  as  almost  to  touo  the  tops  of  the
highest  mountains,  the  centripetal  force  thereof,  retaining  it  in  its  orb,
would  be  very  nearly  equal  to  the  weights  of  any  terrestrial  bodies  that
should  be  found  upon  the  tops  of  those  mountains,  as  may  be  known  by
the  foregoing  computation.  Therefore  if  the  same  little  moon  should  be
deserted  by  its  centrifugal  force  that  carries  it  through  its  orb,  and  so  be
BOOK  111.]   OF    NATURAL    PHILOSOPHY.   393
lisabled  from  going  onward  therein,  it  would  descend  to  the  earth  ;  and
that  with  the  same  velocity  as  heavy  bodies  do  actually  fall  with  upo-n  the
tops  of  those  very  mountains  ;  because  of  the  equality  of  the  forces  that
oblige  them  both  to  descend.  And  if  the  force  by  which  that  lowest  moon
would  descend  were  different  from  gravity,  and  if  that  moon  were  to  gravi
tate  towards  the  earth,  as  we  find  terrestrial  bodies  do  upon  the  tops  of
mountains,  it  would  then  descend  with  twice  the  velocity,  as  being  impel
led  by  both  these  forces  conspiring  together.  Therefore  since  both  these
forces,  that  is,  the  gravity  of  heavy  bodies,  and  the  centripetal  forces  of  the
moons,  respect  the  centre  of  the  earth,  and  are  similar  and  equal  between
themselves,  they  will  (by  Rule  I  and  II)  have  one  and  the  same  cause.  And
therefore  the  force  which  retains  the  moon  in  its  orbit  is  that  very  force
which  we  commonly  call  gravity  ;  because  otherwise  this  little  moon  at  the
top  of  a  mountain  must  either  be  without  gravity,  or  fall  twice  as  swiftly
as  heavy  bodies  are  wont  to  do.
PROPOSITION  V.     THEOREM  V.
'Vhat  the  cir  cum  jovial  planets  gravitate  towards  Jupiter  ;  the  circnntsat-
urnal  towards  Saturn  ;  the  circumsolar  towards  the  sun  ;  and  by  t/ie
forces  of  their  gravity  are  drawn  off  from  rectilinear  motions,  and  re
tained  in  curvilinear  orbits.
For  the  revolutions  of  the  circumjovial  planets  about  Jupiter,  of  the
circumsaturnal  about  Saturn,  and  of  Mercury  and  Venus,  and  the  other
circumsolar  planets,  about  the  sun,  are  appearances  of  the  same  sort  with
the  revolution  of  the  moon  about  the  earth ;  and  therefore,  by  Rule  II,
must  be  owing  to  the  same  sort  of  causes  ;  especially  since  it  has  been
demonstrated,  that  the  forces  upon  which  those  revolutions  depend  tend  to
the  centres  of  Jupiter,  of  Saturn,  and  of  the  sun  ;  and  that  those  forces,  in
receding  from  Jupiter,  from  Saturn,  and  from  the  sun,  decrease  in  the  same
proportion,  and  according  to  the  same  law,  as  the  force  of  gravity  does  in
receding  from  the  earth.
COR.  1.  There  is,  therefore,  a  power  of  gravity  tending  to  all  the  plan
ets  ;  for,  doubtless,  Venus,  Mercury,  and  the  rest,  are  bodies  of  the  same
sort  with  Jupiter  and  Saturn.  And  since  all  attraction  (by  Law  III)  is
mutual,  Jupiter  will  therefore  gravitate  towards  all  his  own  satellites,  Sat
urn  towards  his,  the  earth  towards  the  moon,  and  the  sun  towards  all  the
primary  planets.
COR.  2.  The  force  of  gravity  which  tends  to  any  one  planet  is  re
ciprocally  as  the  square  of  the  distance  of  places  from  that  planet's
centre.
COR.  3.  All  the  planets  do  mutually  gravitate  towards  one  another,  by
Cor.  1  and  2.  And  hence  it  is  that  Jupiter  and  Saturn,  when  near  their
394   THE    MATHEMATICAL    PRINCIPLES   [BOOK    III
conjunction;  by  their  mutual  attractions  sensibly  disturb  each  other's  ?n>
tions.  So  the  sun  disturbs  the  motions  of  the  moon  ;  and  both  sun  ini
moon  disturb  our  sea,  as  we  shall  hereafter  explain.
SCHOLIUM.
The  force  which  retains  the  celestial  bodi «  in  their  orbits  has  been
hitherto  called  centripetal  force;  but  it  being  now  made  plain  that  it  can
be  no  other  than  a  gravitating  force,  we  shall  hereafter  call  it  gravity.
For  the  cause  of  that  centripetal  force  which  retains  the  moon  in  its  orbit
will  extend  itself  to  all  the  planets,  by  Rule  I,  II,  and  IV.
PROPOSITION  VI.     THEOREM  VI.
That  all  bodies  gravitate  towards  every  planet ;  and  that  the  weights  of
bodies  towards  any  the  same  planet,  at  equal  distances  from  the  centre
of  the  planet,  are  proportional  to  the  quantities  of  matter  which  they
severally  contain.
It  has  been,  now  of  a  long  time,  observed  by  others,  that  all  sorts  of
heavy  bodies  (allowance  being  made  for  the  inequality  of  retardation  which
they  suffer  from  a  small  power  of  resistance  in  the  air)  descend  to  the
earth  from  equal  heights  in  equal  times;  and  that  equality  of  times  we
may  distinguish  to  a  great  accuracy,  by  the  help  of  pendulums.  I  tried  the
thing  in  gold,  silver,  lead,  glass,  sand,  eommpn  salt,  wood,  water,  and  wheat.
I  provided  two  wooden  boxes,  round  and  equal :  I  filled  the  one  with  wood,
and  suspended  an  equal  weight  of  gold  (as  exactly  as  I  could)  in  the  centre
of  oscillation  of  the  other.  The  boxes  hanging  by  equal  threads  of  11  feet
made  a  couple  of  pendulums  perfectly  equal  in  weight  and  figure,  and
equally  receiving  the  resistance  of  the  air.  And,  placing  the  one  by  the
other,  I  observed  them  to  play  together  forward  and  backward,  for  a  long
time,  wi  h  equal  vibrations.  And  therefore  the  quantity  of  matte*  :n  the
gold  (by  Cor.  1  and  6,  Prop.  XXIV,  Book  II)  was  to  the  quantity  ot  mat
ter  in  the  wood  as  the  action  of  the  mot

---

mediums,  ...                     24J5
"      a  certain  reflection  it  sometimes  suffers  explained*,      245
"      its  refraction  explained,      243
u      refraction  is  not  made  in  the  single  point  of  incidence,      247    „    .
"      an  incurvation  of  light  about  the  extremities  of  bodies  observed  by  experiments,     .        .  24fc
"      not  caused  by  the  agitation  of  any  ethereal  medium,                   368
»A«NETIC  force,         94,304,397,454
37
578  INDEX    TO    THE   PRINCIPIA.
WARS,  its  periodic  time,      3^
"      its  distance  from  the  sun,      <    339
"      the  motion  of  its  aphelion,      4^/5
MATTER,  its  quantity  of  matter  defined,      ..."          73
"         its  msinsita  define!.      .   74
"        its  impressed  force  defined,      74
its  extension,  hardness,  impenetrability,  mobility,  rta  inertia:,  gravity,  how  discovered,    385
subtle  mattir  of  Descartes  ii  quired  into,     320
MECHANICAL  POWERS  explained  and  demonstrated,     94
MERCURY,  its  periodic  time,         ...........   .    388
its  distance  from  the  sun,         •         ••••••••.,         389
the  ruotion  of  its  aphelion,  .         •        ••••.•••..     405
METHOD  of  first  and  last  ratios,      95
"        of  transforming  figures  into  others  of  the  same  analytical  order,        ....         141
"        of  fluxions,    ...............     261
'•         differential,         •••...........         447
of  finding  the  quadratures  of  all  curves  very  nearly  true,      ......     448
"        ot  converging  series  applied  to  the  solution  of  difficult  problems,        .        .        .        271  430
MOON,  the  inclination  of  its  orbit  to  the  ecliptic  greatest  in  the  syzygies  of  the  node  with  the  ^un,
and  least  in  the  quadratures,      208
"      the  figure  of  its  body  collected  by  calculation,     45.)
"       its  librations  explained,       •         •.....•.....      405
its  mean  apparent  diameter,  .       ...        453
"      its  true  diameter,     453
"      weight  of  bodies  on  its  surface,     453
"       its  density,    453
"      its  quantity  of  matter,     453
"      its  mean  distance  from  the  earth,  how  many  greatest  sem>diameters  of  the  earth  con
tained  therein,     453
"      how  many  mean  semi-diameter?,     454
"      its  force  to  move  the  sea  how  great,     449
not  perceptible  in  experiments  of  pendulums,  or  any  statical  or  hydrostatical  observations,    452
"      its  periodic  time,        454
"      the  time  of  its  synodical  revolution,     422
tt      its  motions,  and  the  inequalities  of  the  same  derived  from  their  causes,     .   .     413, 144
"      revolves  more  slowly,  in  a  dilated  orbit,  when  the  earth  is  in  its  perihelion  ;  and  more
swiftly  in  the  aphelion  the  f-ame,  its  orbit  being  contracted,        ....     413,  444,  445
"      revolves  more  slowly,  in  a  dilated  orbit,  when  tl.e  apogteon  is  in  the  syzygies  with  the  sun  ;
and  more  swiftly,  in  a  contracted  orbit,  when  the  apogaeon  is  in  the  quadratures,        .        445
"       revolves  more  slowly,  in  a  dilated  orbit,  when  the  node  is  in  the  syzygies  with  the  sun  ;
and  more  swiftly,  in  a  contracted  orbit,  when  the  node  is  in  the  quadratures,  .        .    44G
"       moves  slower  in  its  quadratures  with  the  sun,  swifter  in  the  syzygies;  and  by  a  radius
drawn  to  the  earth  describes  an  area,  in  the  fir.<t  case  less  in  proportion  to  the  time,  in  the
last  case  greater,      ...        413
"      the  inequality  of  those  areas  computed,     ....      420
"      its  orbit  is  more  curve,  and  goes  farther  from  the  earth  in  the  first  case;  in  the  last  case
its  orbit  i?  less  curve,  and  comes  nearer  to  the  earth,     415
u      the  figure  of  this  orbit,  and  the  proportion  of  its  diameters  collected  by  computation,        .    423
"      a  method  of  finding  the  moon's  distance  from  the  earth  by  its  horary  motion,        .        .       423
"      its  apogaenn  moves  more  slowly  when  the  earth  is  in  its  aphelion,  m<  re  swiftly  in  the  peri
helion,           414,445
"      its  apogaeon  goes  forward  most  swiftly  when  in  the  syzygies  with  the  sun  ;  and  goes  back
ward  in  the  quadratures,     414, 44l:
"      its  eccentricity  greatest  when  the  apogaeon  is  in  the  syzygies  with  the  sun  ;  least  when  the
same  is  in  the  quadratures,        414,  44C
*  its  nodes  move  more  slowly  when  the  earth  is  in  its  aphelion,  and  more  swiftly  in  the  peri
helion,        414,445
*  its  nodes  are  at  rest  in  their  syzygies  with  the  sun,  and  go  back  most  swiftly  in  the  quad
ratures  ...   .   .        .   ....     41-1
INDEX    TO    THE    PRINCIPIA.   579
MOON,  the  motions  of  the  nodes  and  the  inequalities  of  its  motions  computed  from  the  theory  of
gravity,     427,430,434,436
"      the  same  from  a  different  principle,     437
«      the  variations  of  the  inclination  computed  from  the  theory  of  gravity,      .        .        .    441,  443
"      the  equ£.ti3ns  of  the  moon's  motions  for  astronomical  uses,    ••••••         445
"      the  unnual  equation  of  the  moon's  mean  motion,     445
"      the  first  semi-annual  equation  of  the  same,   •   ...        443
"      the  second  serai-annual  equation  of  the  same,     447
"      the  first  equation  of  the  moon's  centre,     447
"      the  second  equation  of  the  moon's  centre,    448
MOON'S  first  variation,     425
"      the  annual  equation  of  the  mean  motion  of  its  apogee,     445
"       the  semi-annual  equation  of  the  same,     447
"       the  semi-annual  equation  of  its  eccentricity,     447
"      the  annual  equation  of  the  mean  motion  of  its  nodes,    445
"       the  seini-annual  equation  of  the  same,      ..........     437
"      the  seini-anuual  equation  of  the  inclination  of  the  orbit  to  the  ecliptic,        .        .        .        444
"       the  method  of  fixing  the  theory  of  the  lunar  motions  from  observations,        ...     464
MOTION,  its  quantity  defined,      73
«       absolute  and  relative,     78
"       absolute  and  relative,  the  separation  of  one  from  the  other  possible,  demonstrated  by
an  example          ...*             82
"       laws  thereof;     83
".       of  concurring  bodies  after  their  .reflection,  by  what  experiments  collected,      ...      91
"       of  bodies  in  eccentric  sections,        .        .      116
"       in  moveub!e  orbits,    172
"       in  given  superficies,  and  of  the  reciprocal  motion  of  pendulums,        ....         183
"       of  bodies  tending  to  each  other  with  centripetal  forces,     194
"       of  very  small  bodies  agitated  by  centripetal  forces  tending  to  each  part  of  some  very
great  body,    233
"       of  bodies  resisted  in  the  ratio  of  the  velocities,     251
"       in  the  duplicate  ratio  of  the  velocity,     258
"       partly  in  the  simple  and  partly  in  the  duplicate  ratio  of  the  same,         .   280
"       of  bodies  proceeding  by  their  vis  insita  alone  in  resisting  mediums,  251, 258, 259,  280,  281,  330
"       of  bodies  ascending  or  descending  in  right  lines  in  resisting  mediums,  and  acted  on  by
an  uniform  force  of  gravity,     252,265,281,283
"       of  bodies  projected  in  resisting  mediums,  and  acted  on  by  an  uniform  force  of  gravity,  255,  268
u       of  bodies  revolving  in  resisting  mediums,     287
"       of  funependulous  bodies  in  resisting  mediums,  .      304
"       and  resistance  of  fluids,            323
41       propagated  through  fluids,       ...   .   .....     356
"       of  fluids  after  the  manner  of  a  vortex,  or  circular,     370
MOTIONS,  composition  and  resolution  of  them,  ..........           84
OVALS  for  optic  uses,  the  method  of  finding  them  which  Cartesius  concealed,      ....     246
"      a  general  solution  of  Cartesius's  problem,     247,  248
OBBITS,  the  invention  of  those  which  are  described  by  bodies  going  off  from  a  given  place  with
a  given  velocity  according  to  a  given  right  line,  when  the  centripetal  force  is  recipro
cally  as  the  square  of  the  distance,  and  the  absolute  quantity  of  that  force  is  known,    .    123
"       of  those  which  are  described  by  bodies  when  the  centripetal  force  is  reciprocally  as  the
cube  of  the  distance,     114, 171, 176
"       of  those  which  are  described  by  bodies  agitated  by  any  centripetal  forces  whatever,    168
PARABOLA.,  by  what  law  of  centripetal  force  tending  to  the  focus  of  the  figure  the  same  may  be
described,     120
PENDULUMS,  their  properties  explained,     186, 190,  304
the  diverse  length?  of  isochronous  pendulums  in  different  latitudes  compared  among
themselves,  both  by  observations  and  by  the  theory  of  gravity,        .        .        409  to  413
PLACE  defined,  and  distinguished  into  absolute  and  relative,      .78
PLACES  of  bodies  moving  in  conic  sections  found  to  any  assigned  time,       .....     153
not  carried  about  by  corporeal  vortices,    .........         378
'">$()   INDEX    TO    THE    PRINCIPIA.
PLANET*,  their  peri.. diet  .imes,      .   .        3gg
"         their  distances  from  the  tun,      .   .     339
*        the  at.helia  and  nodes  of  their  orbits  do  almost  rest,        ......         405
"        their  orbits  determined,     406
"        the  way  of  finding  their  places  in  their  orbit?,     347  to  350
"        their  density  suited  to  the  heat  they  receive  from  the  sun,    ...*..     400
"        their  diurnal  revolutions  equable.     406
"        their  axes  less  than  the  diameters  that  stand  upon  them  at  right  angles,    .        .        .    406
PLANETS,  PRIMARY,  surround  the  sun,     387
"   move  in  ellipses  whose  focus  is  in  the  sun's  centre    403
by  radii  drawn  to  the  sun  describe  areas  proportional  to  the  times,   .    388,  403
revolve  in  periodic  times  that  are  in  the  sesquiplicate  proportion  of  the  dis
tances  from  the  sun,     387
are  retained  in  their  orbits  by  a  force  of  gravity  which  respects  the  sun,
and  is  reciprocally  as  the  square  of  the  distance  from  the  sun's  centre,    389,  393
PLANETS,  SECONDARY,  move  in  ellipses  having  their  focus  in  the  centre  of  the  primary,        .        413
by  radii  drawn  to  their  primary  describe  areas  proportional  to  the
times    386,387,390
revolve  in  periodic  times  that  are  in  the  sesquiplicate  proportion  of  their
distances  from  the  primary,     386,  387
PROBLEM  KEPLEHIAN,  solved  by  the  trochoid  and  by  approximations,   ....      157  to  160
of  the  ancients,  of  four  lines,  related  by  Pappus,  and  attempted  by  Car-
tesius,  by  an  algebraic  calculus  solved  by  a  geometrical  composition,     .     135
PROJECTILES  move  in  parabolas  when  the  resistance  of  the  medium  is  taken  away,   91, 115,  243,  273
their  motions  in  re.-isting  mediums,      ........         255,  268
PULSES  of  the  air,  by  which  sounds  are  propagated,  their  intervals  or  breadths  determined,    368,  370
"       these  intervals  in  sounds  made  by  open  pipes  probably  equal  to  twice  the  length  of  the
pipes,     370
QUADRATURES  general  of  oval  figures  not  to  be  obtained  by  finite  terms,     153
QUALITIES  of  bodies  how  discovered,  and  when  to  be  supposed  universal,        ....         38-1
RESISTANCE,  the  quantity  thereof  in  mediums  not  continued,     329
"   in  continued  mediums,     40f
in  mediums  of  any  kind  whatever,        •         .         .        .        .         .        .        .        .     3.i.
of  mediums  is  as  their  density,  cceteris  paribus,        .        .     320,  321,  324,  329,  344.  353
is  in  the  duplicate  proportion  of  the  velocity  of  the  bodies  resisted,  ccrteris  j.ari-
bus,     258,  314, 374,  329,  3J4,  35  i
Ct   is  in  the  duplicate  proportion  of  the  diameters  of  spherical  bodies  resisted,  cceteris
paribus    317,  31 8,  329,  34-1
"            of  fluids  threefold,  arises  either  from  the  inactivity  of  the  fluid  matter,  or  the  te
nacity  of  its  parts,  or  friction,     286
«   the  resistance  found  in  fluids,  almost  all  of  the  first  kind,        ....      321,  35*
"   cannot  be  diminished  by  the  subtilty  of  the  parts  of  the  fluid,  if  the  density  remain,    355
"   of  a  globe,  what  proportion  it  bears  to  that  of  a  cylinder,  in  mediums  not  continued,    327
"   in  compressed  mediums,     343
"   of  a  globe  in  mediums  not  continued,     329
"   in  compressed  mediums,     344
"   how  found  by  experiments,     345  to  355
"   to  a  frustum  oi  a  cone,  how  made  the  least  possible,     328
"   what  kind  of  solid  it  is  that  meets  with  the  least,     329
RESISTANCES,  the  theory  thereof  confirmed  by  experiments  of  pendulums,      .        .        .      313  to  321
"   by  experiments  of  fa-lling  bodies,    345  to  356
REST,  true  and  relative,      78
RULES  of  philosophy,     38-!
SATELLITES,  the  greatest  heliocentric  elongation  of  Jupiter's  satellites,     387
"   the  greatest  heliocentric  elongation  of  the  Huygenian  satellite  from  Saturn's  centre.  398
the  periodic  times  of  Jupiter's  satellites,  and  their  distances  from  his  centre,    .    386,  387
"   the  periodic  times  of  Saturn's  satellites,  and  their  distances  from  his  centre,         387,  388
"   the  inequalities  of  the  motions  of  the  satellites  of  Jupiter  and  Saturn  derived  from
the  motions  of  the  moon,     413
SM^UIPLICATE  proportion  defined,      101
INDEX    TO    THE    PRINCIPLE.
SATURN,  its  periodic  time,                            .   388
"        its  distance  from  the  sun,                        388
"       its  apparent  diameter,        ..*•••••••••   388
"        its  true  diameter,            .        .        .        .  399
"       its  attractive  force,  how  great,      398
"       the  weight  of  bodies  on  its  surface,      399
"        its  density,  ...                 .                                    .  399
"        its  quantity  of  matter,      399
"       its  perturbation  by  the  approach  of  Jupiter  how  great,      403
"        the  apparent  diameter  of  its  ring,    .        .        .  388
SHADOW  of  the  earth  to  be  augmented  in  lunar  eclipses,  because  of  the  refraction  of  the  at
mosphere,       44?
SUUNDS,  their  nature  explained,     360,363,365,366,367,368,369
'(        not  propagated  in  directum,                     .                 ...   359
"         caused  by  the  agitation  of  the  air,      368
"         their  velocity  c<  mputed,     368,  369
"        somewhat  swifter  by  the  theory  in  summer  than  m  winter,      370
"        cease  immediately,  when  the  motion  of  the  sonorous  body  ceases,       ....   365
"         how  augmented  in  speaking  trumpets,      370
Sf  ACE,  absolute  and  relative,    78,  79
"       not  equally  full.      396
SPHEROID,  the  attraction  of  the  same  when  the  forces  of  its  particles  are  reciprocally  as  the
squares  of  the  distances     239
SPIRAL  cutting  all  its  radii  in  a  given  angle,  by  what  law  of  centripetal  force  tending  to  the
centre  thereof  it  may  be  described  by  a  revolving  body,         ....         107,  287,  291
SPIRIT  pervading  all  bodies,  and  concealed  within  them,  hinted  at,  as  required  to  solve  a  great
many  phsenomena  of  Nature,      508
STARS,  the  fixed  , -tars  demonstrated  to  be  at  rest,        ...                     404
"       their  twinkling  what  to  be  ascribed  to, .                     487
"      new  stars,  whence  they  may  arise,      502
SUBSTANCES  of  all  things  unknown,      507
SUN,  m  >ves  round  the  common  centre  of  gravity  of  all  the  planets,      401
"     the  periodic  time  of'  its  revolution  about  its  axis     405
"     its  mean  apparent  diameter,     ....*..   453
"     its  true  diameter,      398
"    its  horizontal  parallax,      398
"    has  a  menstrual  parallax,      403
"     its  attractive  force  how  great,      ............   398
"     the  weight  <.f  bodies  on  its  surface,                399
"     its  density,                             .  399
"     its  quantity  of  matter,      399
"     its  force  to  disturb  the  motions  of  the  moon,     391,  419
"     its  force  to  move  the  sea,      448
TIDES  of  the  sea  derived  from  their  cause,     415,  448,  449
TIMF,  absolute  and  relative,    78,  79
"     tli?  astronomical  equation  thereof  proved  by  pendulum  clocks,  and  the  eclipses  of  Jupiter's
satellites,      79
A  VACUUM  proved,  or  that  all  spaces  (if  said  to  be  full)  are  not  equally  full,     ....   396
VELOCITIES  of  bodies  moving  in  conic  sections,  whore  the  centripetal  force  tends  to  the  focus,    .  121
VELOCITY,  the  greatest  that  a  globe  falling  in  a  resisting  medium  can  acquire,        .        .        .  344
VENUS,  its  periodic  time,      388
"       its  distance  from  the  sun,      388
"       the  motion  of  its  aphelion,      405
VOHTICES,  their  nature  and  constitution  examined,     504
W.AVES,  the  velocity  with  which  they  are  propagated  on  the  superficies  of  stagnant  water,        .  361
WEIGHTS  of  bodies  towards  the  sun,  the  earth,  or  any  planet,  are,  at  equal  distances  from  the
centre,  as  the  quantities  of  matter  in  the  bodies,      394
1        they  do  not  depend  upon  the  forms  and  textures  of  bodies     395
"        of  bodies  in  different  regions  of  the  earth  found  out,  and  compared  together,   .        .  409
NON-CIRCULAT1NQ
RETURN      Astronomy/Mathematics/Statistics  Library
100  Evans  Hall   642-3381
LOAN  PERIOD  1
7  DAYS
2                               3
4  5                              6
DUE  AS  STAMPED  BELOW
M&gSgQZ,
OCTO^  1993
tm    -i  ^   mni rLU  1  6  1999
FORM  NO.  DD3  UNIVERSITY  OF  CALIFORNIA,  BERKELEY
BERKELEY,  CA  94720
HHfVf&f*
U.C.  BERKELEY  LIBRARIES

---

ition,
PROPOSITION  XV.     PROBLEM  I.
To  find  the  principal  diameters  <>f  the  orbits  of  the  planets.
They  are  to  be  taken  in  the  sub-sesquiplicate  proportion  of  the  periodic
times,  by  Prop.  XV,  Book  I,  and  then  to  be  severally  augmented  in  the
proportion  of  the  sum  of  the  masses  of  matter  in  the  sun  and  each  planet
to  the  first  of  two  mean  proportionals  betwixt  that  sum  and  the  quantity  of
matter  in  the  sun,  by  Prop.  LX,  Book  I.
PROPOSITION  XVI.     PROBLEM  II.
To  find  the  eccentricities  and  aphelions  of  the  planets.
This  Problem  is  resolved  by  Prop.  XVIII,  Book  I.
PROPOSITION  XVII.    THEOREM  XV.
That   the  diurnal  motions  of  the  planets  are  uniform,  and  that  the
libration  of  the  moon  arises  from  its  diurnal  motion.
The  Proposition  is  proved  from  the  first  Law  of  Motion,  and  Cor.  22,
Prop.  LXVI,  Book  I.  Jupiter,  with  respect  to  the  fixed  stars,  revolves  in
9'1.  5(5  ;  Mars  in  24h.  39' ;  Venus  in  about  23h. ;  the  Earth  in  23'1.  56' ;  the
Sun  in  25 1  days,  and  the  moon  in  27  days,  7  hours,  43'.  These  things
appear  by  the  Phasnomena.  The  spots  in  the  sun's  body  return  to  the
same  situation  on  the  sun's  disk,  with  respect  to  the  earth,  in  27  ±  days ;  and
therefore  with  respect  to  the  fixed  stars  the  sun  revolves  in  about  25|days.
But  because  the  lunar  day,  arising  from  its  uniform  revolution  about  its
axis,  is  menstrual,  that  is,  equal  to  the  time  of  its  periodic  revolution  in
its  orb,  therefore  the  same  face  of  the  moon  wrill  be  always  nearly  turned  to
the  upper  focus  of  its  orb ;  but,  as  the  situation  of  that  focus  requires,  will
deviate  a  little  to  one  side  and  to  the  other  from  the  earth  in  the  lower
focus  j  and  this  is  the  libration  in  longitude  ;  for  the  libration  in  latitude
arises  from  the  moon's  latitude,  and  the  inclination  of  its  axis  to  the  plane
of  the  ecliptic.  This  theory  of  the  libration  of  the  moon,  Mr.  N.  Mercato*
BOOK  III.]   OF    NATURAL    PHILOSOPHY.   4()£
in  his  Astronomy,  published  at  the  beginning  of  the  year  1676.  explained
more  fully  out  of  the  letters  I  sent  him.  The  utmost  satellite  of  Saturn
eeems  to  revolve  about  its  axis  with  a  motion  like  this  of  the  moon,  respect
ing  Saturn  continually  with  the  same  face;  for  in  its  revolution  round
Saturn,  as  often  as  it  comes  to  the  eastern  part  of  its  orbit,  it  is  scarcel)
visible,  and  generally  quite  disappears  ;  which  is  like  to  be  occasioned  by
some  spots  in  that  part  of  its  body,  which  is  then  turned  towards  the  earth,
as  M.  Cassini  has  observed.  So  also  the  utmost  satellite  of  Jupiter  seema
to  revolve  about  its  axis  with  a  like  motion,  because  in  that  part  of  its  body
which  is  turned  from  Jupiter  it  has  a  spot,  which  always  appears  as  if  it
were  in  Jupiter's  own  body,  whenever  the  satellite  passes  between  Jupiter
and  our  eye.
PROPOSITION  XVIII.     THEOREM  XVI.
That  the  axes  of  the  planets  are  less  than  the  diameters  drawn  perpen
dicular  to  the  axes.
The  equal  gravitation  of  the  parts  on  all  sides  would  give  a  spherical
figure  to  the  planets,  if  it  was  not  for  their  diurnal  revolution  in  a  circle.
By  that  circular  motion  it  comes  to  pass  that  the  parts  receding  from  the
axis  endeavour  to  ascend  about  the  equator  ;  and  therefore  if  the  matter  is
in  a  fluid  state,  by  its  ascent  towards  the  equator  it  will  enlarge  the  di
ameters  there,  and  by  its  descent'  to  wards  the  poles  it  will  shorten  the  axis.
So  the  diameter  of  Jupiter  (by  the  concurring  observations  of  astronomers)
is  found  shorter  betwixt  pole  and  pole  than  from  east  to  west.  And,  by
the  same  argument,  if  our  earth  was  not  higher  about  the  equator  than  at
the  poles,  the  seas  would  subside  about  the  poles,  and,  rising  toward*  Ikf
equator,  would  lay  all  things  there  under  water.
PROPOSITION  XIX.     PROBLEM  III
To  find  the  proportion  of  the  axis  of  a  planet  to  the  dia  meter  j  j*,rpen-
dici/lar  thereto.
Our  countryman,  Mr.  Norwood,  measuring  a  distance  of  005751  feet  of
London  measure  between  London  and  YorA:,  in  1635,  and  obs,-rvino-  the
difference  of  latitudes  to  be  2°  28',  determined  the  measure  of  one  degree
to  be  3671 96  feet  of  London  measure,  that  is  57300  Paris  toises.  M
Picart,  measuring  an  arc  of  one  degree,  and  22'  55"  of  the  meridian  be
tween  Amiens  and  Malvoisine,  found  an  arc  of  one  degree  to  be  57060
Paris  toises.  M.  Cassini,  the  father,  measured  the  distance  upon  the  me
ridian  from  the  town  of  Collionre  in  Roussillon  to  the  Observatory  of
Pari»;  and  his  son  added  the  distance  from  the  Observatory  to  the  Cita
del  of  Dunkirk.  The  whole  distance  was  486156^  toises  and  the  differ
ence  of  the  latitudes  of  Collionre  and  Dunkirk  was  8  degrees,  and  31
106   THE    MATHEMATICAL    PRINCIPLES   [BOOK    1IJ.
llf".  Hence  an  arc  of  one  degree  appears  to  be  57061  Paris  toises.
And  from  these  measures  we  conclude  that  the  circumference  of  the  earth
is  123249600,  and  its  semi-diameter  19615800  Paris  feet,  upon  the  sup
position  that  the  earth  is  of  a  spherical  figure.
In  the  latitude  of  Paris  a  heavy  body  falling  in  a  second  of  time  de
scribes  15  Paris  feet,  1  inch,  1 J  line,  as  above,  that  is,  2173  lines  J.  The
weight  of  the  body  is  diminished  by  the  weight  of  the  ambient  air.  Let
us  suppose  the  weight  lost  thereby  to  be  TT^o-o-  Par^  °^  ^he  whole  weight  ;
then  that  heavy  body  falling  in,  vacua  will  describe  a  height  of  2174  lines
in  one  second  of  time.
A  body  in  every  sidereal  day  of  23'1.  56'  4"  uniformly  revolving  in  a
circle  at  the  distance  of  19615SOO  feet  from  the  centre,  in  one  second  oi
time  describes  an  arc  of  1433,46  feet ;  the  versed  sine  of  which  is  0,0523656  1
feet,  or  7,54064  lines.  And  therefore  the  force  with  which  bodies  descend
in  the  latitude  of  Paris  is  to  the  centrifugal  force  of  bodies  in  the  equator
arising  from  the  diurnal  motion  of  the  earth  as  2174  to  7,54064.
The  centrifugal  force  of  bodies  in  the  equator  is  to  the  centrifugal  force
with  which  bodies  recede  directly  from  the  earth  in  the  latitude  of  Parin
48°  50'  10"  in  the  duplicate  proportion  of  the  radius  to  the  cosine  of  the
latitude,  that  is,  as  7,54064  to  3,267.  Add  this  force  to  the  force  with
which  bodies  descend  by  their  weight  in  the  latitude  of  Paris,  and  a  body,
in  the  latitude  of  Paris,  falling  by  its  whole  undiminished  force  of  gravity,
in  the  time  of  one  second,  will  describe  2177,267  lines,  or  15  Paris  feet,
1  inch,  and  5,267  lines.  And  the  total  force  of  gravity  in  that  latitude
will  be  to  the  centrifugal  force  of  bodies  in  the  equator  of  the  earth  as
2177,267  to  7,54064,  or  as  289  to  1.
Wherefore  if  APBQ,  represent  the  figure  of  the
earth,  now  no  longer  spherical,  but  generated  by  the
rotation  of  an  ellipsis  about  its  lesser  axis  PQ,  ;  and
ACQqca  a  canal  full  of  water,  reaching  from  the  pole
Qq  to  the  centre  Cc,  and  thence  rising  to  the  equator
Art  ;  the  weight  of  the  water  in  the  leg  of  the  canal
ACca  will  be  to  the  weight  of  water  in  the  other  leg
QCcq  as  289  to  288,  because  the  centrifugal  force  arising  from  the  circu
lar  motion  sustains  and  takes  off  one  of  the  289  parts  of  the  weight  (in  the
one  leg),  and  the  weight  of  288  in  the  other  sustains  the  rest.  But  by
computation  (from  Cor.  2,  Prop.  XCI,  Book  I)  I  find,  that,  if  the  matter
of  the  earth  was  all  uniform,  and  without  any  motion,  and  its  axis  PQ,
were  to  the  diameter  AB  as  100  to  101,  the  force  of  gravity  in  the
place  Q  towards  the  earth  would  be  to  the  force  of  gravity  in  the  same
place  Q  towards  a  sphere  described  about  the  centre  C  with  the  radius
PC,  or  QC,  as  126  to  125.  And,  by  the  same  argument,  the  force  of
gravity  in  the  place  A  towards  the  spheroid  generated  by  the  rotation  of
BOOK     III.]   OF    NATURAL    PHILOSOPHY.   407
the  ellipsis  APBQ,  about  the  axis  AI3  is  to  the  force  of  gravity  in  the
same  place  A,  towards  the  sphere  described  about  the  centre  C  with  the
radius  AC,  as  125  to  126.  But  the  force  of  gravity  in  the  place  A  to
wards  the  earth  is  a  mean  proportional  betwixt  the  forces  of  gravity  to
wards  the  spheroid  and  this  sphere;  because  the  sphere,  by  having  its  di
ameter  PQ,  diminished  in  the  proportion  of  101  to  100,  is  transformed  into
the  figure  of  the  earth  ;  and  this  figure,  by  having  a  third  diameter  per
pendicular  to  the  two  diameters  AB  and  PQ,  diminished  in  the  same  pro
portion,  is  converted  into  the  said  spheroid  ;  and  the  force  of  gravity  in  A,
in  either  case,  is  diminished  nearly  in  the  same  proportion.  Therefore  the
force  of  gravity  in  A  towards  the  sphere  described  about  the  centre  C  with
the  radius  AC,  is  to  the  force  of  gravity  in  A  towards  the  earth  as  126  to
1251.  And  the  force  of  gravity  in  the  place  Q  towards  the  sphere  de
scribed  about  the  centre  C  with  the  radius  QC,  is  to  the  force  of  gravity
in  the  place  A  towards  the  sphere  described  about  the  centre  C,  with  the
radius  AC,  in  the  proportion  of  the  diameters  (by  Prop.  LXXII,  Book  I),
that  is,  as  100  to  101.  If,  therefore,  we  compound  those  three  proportions
126  to  125,  126  to  125|.  and  100  to  101,  into  one,  the  force  of  gravity  in
the  place  Q  towards  the  earth  will  be  to  the  force  of  gravity  in  the  place
A  towards  the  earth  as  126  X  126  X  100  to  125  X  125|  X  101  ;  or  as
:>01  to  500.
Now  since  (by  Cor.  3,  Prop.  XCI,  Book  I)  the  force  of  gravity  in  either
leg  of  the  canal  ACca,  or  QCcy,  is  as  the  distance  of  the  places  from  the
centre  of  the  earth,  if  those  legs  are  conceived  to  be  divided  by  transverse.,
parallel,  and  equidistant  surfaces,  into  parts  proportional  to  the  wholes,
the  weights  of  any  number  of  parts  in  the  one  leg  ACca  will  be  to  the
weights  of  the  same  number  of  parts  in  the  other  leg  as  their  magnitudes
and  the  accelerative  forces  of  their  gravity  conjunctly,  that  is,  as  10 J  to
100,  and  500  to  501.  or  as  505  to  501.  And  therefore  if  the  centrifugal
force  of  every  part  in  the  leg  ACca,  arising  from  the  diurnal  motion,  was
to  the  weight  of  the  same  part  as  4  to  505,  so  that  from  the  weight  of
every  part,  conceived  to  be  divided  into  505  parts,  the  centrifugal  force
might  take  off  four  of  those  parts,  the  weights  would  remain  equal  in  each
leg,  and  therefore  the  fluid  would  rest  in  an  equilibrium.  But  the  centri
fugal  force  of  every  part  is  to  the  weight  of  the  same  part  as  1  to  289  ;
that  is,  the  centrifugal  force,  which  should  be  T£y  parts  of  the  weight,  is
only  ¥|g  part  thereof.  And,  therefore,  I  say,  by  the  rule  of  proportion,
that  if  the  centrifugal  force  j ^  make  the  height  of  the  water  in  the  leg
ACca  to  exceed  the  height  of  the  water  in  the  leg  QCcq  by  one  T|¥  part
of  its  whole  height,  the  centrifugal  force  -^jj  will  make  the  excess  of  the
height  in  the  leg  ACca  only  ^{^  part  of  the  height  of  the  water  in  the
other  leg  QCcq  ;  and  therefore  the  diameter  of  the  earth  at  the  equator,  is
to  its  diameter  from  pole  to  pole  as  230  to  229.  And  since  the  mean  semi-
108  THE    MATHEMATICAL    PRINCIPLES  [BooK  III.
diameter  of  the  earth,  according  to  PicarVs  mensuration,  is  19615800
Paris  feet,  or  3923,16  miles  (reckoning  5000  feet  to  a  mile),  the  earth
will  be  higher  at  the  equator  than  at  the  poles  by  85472  feet,  or  17^-
miles.  And  its  height  at  the  equator  will  be  about  19658600  feet,  and  at
the  poles  19573000  feet.
If,  the  density  and  periodic  time  of  the  diurnal  revolution  remaining  the
same,  the  planet  was  greater  or  less  than  the  earth,  the  proportion  of  the
centrifugal  force  to  that  of  gravity,  and  therefore  also  of  the  diameter  be
twixt  the  poles  to  the  diameter  at  the  equator,  would  likewise  remain  the
game.  But  if  the  diurnal  motion  was  accelerated  or  retarded  in  any  pro
portion,  the  centrifugal  force  would  be  augmented  or  diminished  nearly  in
the  same  duplicate  proportion  ;  and  therefore  the  difference  of  the  diame
ters  will  be  increased  or  diminished  in  the  same  duplicate  ratio  very  nearly.
And  if  the  density  of  the  planet  was  augmented  or  diminished  in  any  pro
portion,  the  force  of  gravity  tending  towards  it  would  also  be  augmented
or  diminished  in  the  same  proportion  :  and  the  difference  of  the  diameters
contrariwise  would  be  diminished  in  proportion  as  the  force  of  gravity  is
augmented,  and  augmented  in  proportion  as  the  force  of  gravity  is  dimin
ished.  Wherefore,  since  the  earth,  in  respect  of  the  fixed  stars,  revolves  in
23h.  56',  but  Jupiter  in  9h.  56',  and  the  squares  of  their  periodic  times  are
as  29  to  5,  and  their  densities  as  400  to  94  £,  the  difference  of  the  diameters
29      400        1
of  Jupiter  will  be  to  its  lesser  diameter  as  —  X  ^^  X  ^Tm  to  1;  or  as  1  to
9  f,  nearly.  Therefore  the  diameter  of  Jupiter  from  east  to  west  is  to  its
diameter  from  pole  to  pole  nearly  as  10  £•  to  9|-.  Therefore  since  its
greatest  diameter  is  37",  its  lesser  diameter  lying  between  the  poles  will
be  33"  25"'.  Add  thereto  about  3''  for  the  irregular  refraction  of  light,
and  the  apparent  diameters  of  this  planet  will  become  40''  and  36"  25"'  ;
which  are  to  each  other  as  11  -j  to  10^,  very  nearly.  These  things  are  so
upon  the  supposition  that  the  body  of  Jupiter  is  uniformly  dense.  But
now  if  its  body  be  denser  towards  the  plane  of  the  equator  than  towards
the  poles,  its  diameters  may  be  to  each  other  as  12  to  11,  or  13  to  12,  or
perhaps  as  14  to  13.
And  Cassini  observed  in  the  year  1691,  that  the  diameter  of  Jupiter
reaching  from  east  to  west  is  greater  by  about  a  fifteenth  part  than  the
other  diameter.  Mr.  Pound  with  his  123  feet  telescope,  and  an  excellent
micrometer,  measured  the  diameters  of  Jupiter  in  the  year  1719,  and  found
them  as  follow.
The  Times.  (jieatestdiam.  Lesser  diam.  The  diam.  to  each  other.
Day.  Hours.
January  28       6
March       6       7
March       9       7
April          9       9
I'arts
13,40
13,12
13.12
X2.32
I'arts
12,28
12,20
12,08
11,48
As    12       to     11
13|     to     12|
12f     to     llf
14£     to     13d
K    HI.   OF    NATURAL    PHILOSOPHY.   409
So  thut  the  theory  agrees  with  the  phenomena  ;  for  the  planets  are  more
heated  by  the  sun's  rays  towards  their  equators,  and  therefore  are  a  lit  fie
more  condensed  by  that  heat  than  towards  their  poles.
Moreover,  that  there  is  a  diminution  of  gravity  occasioned  by  the  diur
nal  rotation  of  the  earth,  and  therefore  the  earth  rises  higher  there  than  it
does  at  the  poles  (supposing  that  its  matter  is  uniformly  dense),  will  ap
pear  by  the  experiments  of  pendulums  related  under  the  following  Propo
sition.
PROPOSITION  XX.     PROBLEM  IV.
To  find  and  compare  together  the  weights  of  bodies  in  the  different  re
gions  of  our  earth.
Because  the  weights  of  the  unequal  legs  of  the  canal
of  water  ACQqca  are  equal  ;  and  the  weights  of  the
parts  proportional  to  the  whole  legs,  and  alike  situated
in  them,  are  one  to  another  as  the  weights  of  the  P|
wholes,  and  therefore  equal  betwixt  themselves  ;  the
weights  of  equal  parts,  and  alike  situated  in  the  legs,
will  be  reciprocally  as  the  legs,  that  is,  reciprocally  as
230  to  229.  And  the  case  is  the  same  in  all  homogeneous  equal  bodies  alike
situated  in  the  legs  of  the  canal.  Their  weights  are  reciprocally  as  the  legs,
that  is,  reciprocally  as  the  distances  of  the  bodies  from  the  centre  of  the  earth.
Therefore  if  the  bodies  are  situated  in  the  uppermost  parts  of  the  canals,  or  on
the  surface  of  the  earth,  their  weights  will  be  one  to  another  reciprocally  as
their  distances  from  the  centre.  And.  by  the  same  argument,  the  weights  in
all  other  places  round  the  whole  surface  of  the  earth  are  reciprocally  as  the
distances  of  the  places  from  the  centre  ;  and,  therefore,  in  the  hypothesis
of  the  earth's  being  a  spheroid  are  given  in  proportion.
Whence  arises  this  Theorem,  that  the  increase  of  weight  in  passing  from
tne  equator  to  the  poles  is  nearly  as  the  versed  sine  of  double  the  latitude  ;
or,  which  comes  to  the  same  thinir,  as  the  square  of  the  right  sine  of  the
latitude  ;  and  the  arcs  of  the  degrees  of  latitude  in  the  meridian  increase
nearly  in  the  same  proportion.  And,  therefore,  since  the  latitude  of  Paris
is  48°  50',  that  of  places  under  the  equator  00°  00',  and  that  of  places
under  the  poles  90°  ;  and  the  versed  sines  of  double  those  arcs  are
11334,00000  and  20000,  the  radius  being  10000  ;  and  the  force  of  gravity
at  the  pole  is  to  the  force  of  gravity  at  the  equator  as  230  to  229  ;  and
the  excess  of  the  force  of  gravity  at  the  pole  to  the  force  of  gravity  at  the
equator  as  1  to  229  ;  the  excess  of  the  force  of  gravity  in  the  latitude  of
Paris  will  be  to  the  force  of  gravity  at  the  equator  as  1  X  Htll  to  229,
or  as  5667  to  2290000.  And  therefore  the  whole  forces  of  gravity  in
those  places  will  be  one  to  the  other  as  2295667  to  2290000.  Wherefore
since  the  lengths  of  pendulums  vibrating  in  equal  times  are  as  the  forces  of
410  THE    MATHEMATICAL    PRINCIPLES  [BOOK  III.
gravity,  and  in  the  latitude  of  Paris,  the  length  of  a  pendulum  vibrating
seconds  is  3  Paris  feet,  and  S£  lines,  or  rather  because  of  the  weight  of
the  air,  8f  lines,  the  length  of  a  pendulum  vibrating  in  the  same  time
arider  the  equator  will  be  shorter  by  1,087  lines.  And  by  a  like  calculus
the  following  table  is  made.
Latitude  of
the  place.  Length  ol  the
pendulum
iMeasure    of   one    degree
in  the  meridian.
Deg.  Feet          Lines.  Toises.
0  3  .     7,468  56637
5  3  .     7,482  56642
10  3  .     7,526  56659
15  3  .     7,596  56687
20  3  .     7,692  56724 25  3  .     7,812  56769
30  3  .     7,948  56823
35  3  .     8,099  56882
40  3  .     8,261  56945
1  3  .     8.294  5695?
2  3  .     8,327  5697  1
3  3  .     8,361  56984
4  3  .     8;394  56997
45  3  .     8.428  57010
6  3  .     8,461  57022
7  3  .     8,494  57035
8  3  .     8,528  57048
9  3  .     8,561  57061 50  3  .     8,594  57074
55  3  .     8.756  57137
60  3  .     8^907  57196
65  3  .     9,044  57250
70  3  .     9,162  57295
75
3  .     9,258  57332
80  3  .     9,329  57360
85  3  .     9,372  57377
90  3  .     9,387  57382
By  this  table,  therefore,  it  appears  that  the  inequality  of  degrees  is  sc
small,  that  the  figure  of  the  earth,  in  geographical  matters,  may  be  con
sidered  as  spherical ;  especially  if  the  earth  be  a  little  denser  towards  the
plane  of  the  equator  than  towards  the  poles.
Now  several  astronomers,  sent  into  remote  countries  to  make  astronomical
observations,  have  found  that  pendulum  clocks  do  accordingly  move  slower
near  the  equator  than  in  our  climates.  And,  first  of  all,  in  the  year  I  72,
M.  Richer  took  notice  of  it  in  the  island  of  Cayenne  ;  for  when,  in  the
month  of  August,  he  was  observing  the  transits  of  the  fixed  stars  over  the
meridian,  he  found  his  clock  to  go  slower  than  it  ought  in  respect  of  the
mean  motion  of  the  sun  at  the  rate  of  2'  29"  a  day.  Therefore,  fitting  up
a  simple  pendulum  to  vibrate  in  seconds,  which  were  measured  by  an  ex
cellent  clock,  he  observed  the  length  of  that  simple  pendulum  ;  and  this  he
did  over  and  over  every  week  for  ten  months  together.  And  upon  his  re
turn  to  France,  comparing  the  length  of  that  pendulum  with  the  length
iiJ.j   OF    NATURAL    PHILOSOPHY.   411
of  the  pendulum  at  Paris  (which  was  3  Paris  feet  and  8f  lines),  he  found
it  shorter  by  1  j  line.
Afterwards,  our  friend  Dr.  Halley,  about  the  year  1677,  arriving  at  the
island  of  St.  Helena,  found  his  pendulum  clock  to  go  slower  there  than  at
Isondon  without  marking  the  difference.  But  he  shortened  the  rod  of
his  clock  by  more  than  the  \  of  an  inch,  or  l£  line  ;  and  to  effect  this,  be
cause  the  length  of  the  screw  at  the  lower  end  of  the  rod  was  riot  sufficient,
he  interposed  a  wooden  ring  betwixt  the  nut  and  the  ball.
Then,  in  the  year  1682,  M.  Varin  and  M.  des  Hayes  found  the  length
of  a  simple  pendulum  vibrating  in  seconds  at  the  Royal  Observatory  of
Paris  to  be  3  feet  and  S|  lines.  And  by  the  same  method  in  the  island
of  Goree,  they  found  the  length  of  an  isochronal  pendulum  to  be  3  feet  and
6 1  lines,  differing  from  the  former  by  two  lines.  And  in  the  same  year,
going  to  the  islands  of  Guadeloupe  and  Martinico,  they  found  that  the
length  of  an  isochronal  pendulum  in  those  islands  was  3  feet  and  6^  lines.
After  this,  M.  Couplet,  the  son,  in  the  month  of  July  1697,  at  the  Royal
Observatory  of  Paris,  so  fitted  his  pendulum  clock  to  the  mean  motion  of
the  sun,  that  for  a  considerable  time  together  the  clock  agreed  with  the
motion  of  the  sun.  In  November  following,  upon  his  arrival  at  Lisbon,  he
found  his  clock  to  go  slower  than  before  at  the  rate  of  2'  13"  in  24  hours.
And  next  March  coming  to  Paraiba,  he  found  his  clock  to  go  slower  than
at  Paris,  and  at  the  rate  4'  12"  in  24  hours  ;  and  he  affirms,  that  the  pen
dulum  vibrating  in  seconds  was  shorter  at  Lisbon  by  2±  lines,  and  at  Pa
raiba,  by  3 1  lines,  than  at  Paris.  He  had  done  better  to  have  reckoned
those  differences  \\  and  2f :  for  these  differences  correspond  to  the  differ
ences  of  the  times  2'  13"  and  4'  12".  But  this  gentleman's  observations
are  so  gross,  that  we  cannot  confide  in  them.
In  the  following  years,  1699,  and  1700,  M.  des  Hayes,  making  another
voyage  to  America,  determined  that  in  the  island  of  Cayenne  and  Granada
the  length  of  the  pendulum  vibrating  in  seconds  was  a  small  matter  less
than  3  feet  and  6|  lines ;  that  in  the  island  of  St.  Christophers  it  was
3  feet  and  6f  lines  ;  and  in  the  island  of  St.  Domingo  3  feet  and  7
lines.
And  in  the  year  1704,  P.  Feuille,  at  Puerto  Bello  in  America,  found
that  the  length  of  the  pendulum  vibrating  in  seconds  was  3  Paris  feet,
and  only  5--^  lines,  that  is,  almost  3  lines  shorter  than  at  Paris  ;  but  the
observation  was  faulty.  For  afterward,  going  to  the  island  of  Martinico.
he  found  the  length  of  the  isochronal  pendulum  there  3  Paris  feet  and
5  \  |  lines.
Now  the  latitude  of  Paraiba  is  6°  38'  south  ;  that  of  Puerto  Bello  9°
33'  north  ;  and  the  latitudes  of  the  islands  Cayenne,  Goree,  Gaudaloupe}
Martinico,  Granada,  St.  Christophers,  and  St.  Domingo,  are  respectively
4C  55',  14°  40",  15°  00',  14°  44',  12°  06',  17°  19',  and  19°  48',  north.  An*J
412   THE    MATHEMATICAL    PRINCIPLES   [BOOK    III
the  excesses  of  the  length  of  the  pendulum  at  Paris  above  the  lengths  of
the  isochronal  pendulums  observed  in  those  latitudes  are  a  little  greater
than  by  the  table  of  the  lengths  of  the  pendulum  before  computed.  And
therefore  the  earth  is  a  little  higher  under  the  equator  than  by  the  prece
ding  calculus,  and  a  little  denser  at  the  centre  than  in  mines  near  the  sur
face,  unless,  perhaps,  the  heats  of  the  torrid  zone  have  a  little  extended  the
length  of  the  pendulums.
For  M.  Picart  has  observed,  that  a  rod  of  iron,  which  in  frosty  weather
in  the  winter  season  was  one  foot  long,  when  heated  by  lire,  was  lengthened
into  one  foot  and  -]-  line.  Afterward  M.  de  la  Hire  found  that  a  rod  of
iron,  which  in  the  like  winter  season  was  6  feet  long,  when  exposed  to  the
heat  of  the  summer  sun,  was  extended  into  6  feet  and  f  line.  In  the  former
case  the  heat  was  greater  than  in  the  latter ;  but  in  the  latter  it  was  greater
than  the  heat  of  the  external  parts  of  a  human  body ;  for  metals  exposed
to  the  summer  sun  acquire  a  very  considerable  degree  of  heat.  But  the  rod
of  a  pendulum  clock  is  never  exposed  to  the  heat  of  the  summer  sun,  nor
ever  acquires  a  heat  equal  to  that  of  the  external  parts  of  a  human  body ;
and,  therefore,  though  the  3  feet  rod  of  a  pendulum  clock  will  indeed  be  a
little  longer  in  the  summer  than  in  the  winter  season,  yet  the  difference  will
scarcely  amount  to  \  line.  Therefore  the  total  difference  of  the  lengths  of
isochronal  pendulums  in  different  climates  cannot  be  ascribed  to  the  differ
ence  of  heat ;  nor  indeed  to  the  mistakes  of  the  French  astronomers.  For
although  there  is  not  a  perfect  agreement  betwixt  their  observations,  yet
the  errors  are  so  small  that  they  may  be  neglected  ;  and  in  this  they  all
agree,  that  isochronal  pendulums  are  shorter  under  the  equator  than
at  the  Royal  Observatory  of  Paris,  by  a  difference  not  less  than  1{  line,
nor  greater  than  2|  lines.  By  the  observations  of  M.  Richer,  in  the  island
of  Cayenne,  the  difference  was  1|  line.  That  difference  being  corrected  by
those  of  M.  des  Hayes,  becomes  \\  line  or  l£  line.  By  the  less  accurate
observations  of  others,  the  same  was  made  about  two  lines.  And  this  dis
agreement  might  arise  partly  from  the  errors  of  the  observations,  partly
from  the  dissimilitude  of  the  internal  parts  of  the  earth,  and  the  height  of
mountains  ;  partly  from  the  different  heats  of  the  air.
I  take  an  iron  rod  of  3  feet  long  to  be  shorter  by  a  sixth  part  of  one  line
in  winter  time  with  us  here  in  England  than  in  the  summer.  Because  of
the  great  heats  under  the  equator,  subduct  this  quantity  from  the  difference
of  one  line  and  a  quarter  observed  by  M.  Richer,  and  there  will  remain  one
line  TV,  which  agrees  very  well  with  lT-o£o  ^ne  collected,  by  the  theory  a
little  before.  M.  Richer  repeated  his  observations,  made  in  the  island  of
Cayenne,  every  week  for  ten  months  together,  and  compared  the  lengths  of
the  pendulum  which  he  had  there  noted  in  the  iron  rods  with  the  lengths
thereof  which  he  observed  in  Prance.  This  diligence  and  care  seems  to
have  been  wanting  to  the  other  observers.  If  this  gentleman's  observations
BOOK  I1I.J   OF    NATURAL    PHILOSOPHY.   413
are  to  be  depended  on,  the  earth  is  higher  under  the  equator  than  at  the
poles,  and  that  by  an  excess  of  about  17  miles;  as  appeared  above  by  the
theory.
PROPOSITION  XXI.     THEOREM  XVII.
That  the  equinoctial  points  go  backward,  and  that  the  axis  of  the  earth,
by  a  nutation  in,  every  annual   revolution,  twice  vibrates  towards  the
ecliptic,  and  as  often  returns  to  its  former  position,.
The    proposition  appears   from   Cor.  20,   Prop.  LXVI,  Book   I ;    but
that  motion   of  nutation  must  be  very  small,  and,  indeed,  scarcely  per
ceptible.
PROPOSITION  XXII.     THEOREM  XVIII.
That  all  the  motions  of  the  ?noon,  and  all  the  inequalities  of  those  motions,
follow  from  the  principles  which  we  have  laid  down.
That  the  greater  planets,  while  they  are  carried  about  the  sun,  may  in
the  mean  time  carry  other  lesser  planets,  revolving  about  them  ;  and  that
those  lesser  planets  must  move  in  ellipses  which  have  their  foci  in  the  cen
tres  of  the  greater,  appears  from  Prop.  LXV,  Book  I.  But  then  their  mo
tions  will  be  several  ways  disturbed  by  the  action  of  the  sun,  and  they  will
suffer  such  inequalities  as  are  observed  in  our  moon.  Thus  our  moon  (by
Cor.  2,  3,  4,  and  5,  Prop.  LXVI,  Book  I)  moves  faster,  and,  by  a  radius
drawn  to  the  earth,  describes  an  area  greater  for  the  time,  and  has  its  orbit
less  curved,  and  therefore  approaches  nearer  to  the  earth  in  the  syzygies
than  in  the  quadratures,  excepting  in  so  far  as  these  effects  are  hindered  by
the  motion  of  eccentricity  ;  for  (by  Cor.  9,  Prop.  LXVI,  Book  I)  the  eccen
tricity  is  greatest  when  the  apogeon  of  the  moon  is  in  the  syzygies,  and
least  when  the  same  is  in  the  quadratures  ;  and  upon  this  account  the  pe-
rigeon  moon  is  swifter,  and  nearer  to  us,  but  the  apogeon  moon  slower,
arid  farther  from  us,  in  the  syzygies  than  in  the  quadratures.  Moreover,
the  apogee  goes  forward,  and  the  nodes  backward  ;  and  this  is  done  not  with
a  regular  but  an  unequal  motion.  For  (by  Cor.  7  and  8,  Prop.  LXVI,
Book  I)  the  apogee  goes  more  swiftly  forward  in  its  syzygies,  more  slowly
backward  in  its  quadratures;  and,  by  the  excess  of  its  progress  above  its
regress,  advances  yearly  in  consequentia.  But,  contrariwise,  the  nodes  (by
Cor.  11,  Prop.  LXVI,  Book  I)  are  quiescent  in  their  syzygies,  and  go  fastest
back  in  their  quadratures.  Farther,  the  greatest  latitude  of  the  moon  (by
Cor.  10,  Prop.  LXVI,  Book  I)  is  greater  in  the  quadratures  of  the  moon
than  in  its  syzygies.  And  (by  Cor.  6,  Prop.  LXVI,  Book  I)  the  mean  mo
tion  of  the  moon  is  slower  in  the  perihelion  of  the  earth  than  in  its  aphelion.
And  these  are  the  principal  inequalities  (of  the  moon)  taken  notice  of  by
astronomers.
414   THE    MATHEMATICAL    PRINCIPLES   [BOOK    III
But  there  are  yet  other  inequalities  not  observed  by  former  astronomers,
by  which  the  motions  of  the  moon  are  so  disturbed,  that  to  this  day  we
have  not  been  able  to  bring  them  under  any  certain  rule.  For  the  veloc
ities  or  horary  motions  of  the  apogee  and  nodes  of  the  moon,  and  their
equations,  as  well  as  the  difference  betwixt  the  greatest  eccentricity  in  the
syzygics,  and  the  least  eccentricity  in  the  quadratures,  and  that  inequality
which  we  call  the  variation,  are  (by  Cor.  14,  Prop.  LXVI,  Book  I)  in  the
course  of  the  year  augmented  and  diminished  in  the  triplicate  proportion
of  the  sun's  apparent  diameter.  And  besides  (by  Cor.  1  and  2,  Lem.  10,
and  Cor.  16,  Prop.  LXVI,  Book  I)  the  variation  is  augmented  and
diminished  nearly  in  the  duplicate  proportion  of  the  time  between
the  

