  and  an  ellipti-spiral  in  a  resisting  me
dium.  Our  author,  aided  by  this  correction  of  his  error,  and  by
30   LIFE    OF    SIR    ISAAC    NEWTON.
the  discovery  that  a  projectile  would  move  in  an  elliptical  orbil
when  under  the  influence  of  a  force  varying  inversely  as  the
square  of  the  distance,  was  led  to  discover  "  the  theorem  bj
which  he  afterwards  examined  the  ellipsis ;"  and  to  demonstrate
the  celebrated  proposition  that  a  planet  acted  upon  by  an  attrac
tive  force  varying  inversely  as  the  squares  of  the  distances  will
describe  an  elliptical  orbit,  in  one  of  whose  foci  the  attractive
force  resides.
When  he  was  attending  a  meeting  of  the  Royal  Society,  in
June  1682,  the  conversation  fell  upon  the  subject  of  the  measure
ment  of  a  degree  of  the  meridian,  executed  by  M.  Picard,  a
French  Astronomer,  in  1679.  Newton  took  a  memorandum  oi
the  result  ;  and  afterward,  at  the  earliest  opportunity,  computed
from  it  the  diameter  of  the  earth  :  furnished  with  these  new  data,
he  resumed  his  calculation  of  1666.  As  he  proceeded  therein,
he  saw  that  his  early  expectations  were  now  likely  to  be  realized  ;
the  thick  rushing,  stupendous  results  overpowered  him  ;  he  be
came  unable  to  carry  on  the  process  of  calculation,  and  intrusted
its  completion  to  one  of  his  friends.  The  discoverer  had,  indeed,
grasped  the  master-fact.  The  law  of  falling  bodies  at  the  earth's
surface  was  at  length  identified  with  that  which  guided  the  moon
in  her  orbit.  And  so  his  GREAT  THOUGHT,  that  had  for  sixteen
years  loomed  up  in  dim,  gigantic  outline,  amid  the  first  dawn  of  a
plausible  hypothesis,  now  stood  forth,  radiant  and  not  less  grand,
in  the  mid-day  light  of  demonstrated  truth.
It  were  difficult,  nay  impossible  to  imagine,  even,  the  influence
of  a  result  like  this  upon  a  mind  like  Newton's.  It  was  as  if  the
keystone  had  been  fitted  to  the  glorious  arch  by  which  his  spirit
should  ascend  to  the  outskirts  of  infinite  space — spanning  the  immea
surable — weighing  the  imponderable — computing  the  incalculable
—mapping  out  the  marchings  of  the  planets,  and  the  far-wander
ings  of  the  comefs,  and  catching,  bring  back  to  earth  some  clearer
notes  of  that  higher  melody  which,  as  a  sounding  voice,  bears
perpetual  witness  to  the  design  and  omnipotence  of  a  creating
Deity.
Newton,  extending  the  law  thus  obtained,  composed  a  series
of  about  twelve  propositions  on  the  motion  of  the  primary  planets
LIFE    OF    SIR    ISAAC    NEWTON.   31
about  the  sun.  These  were  sent  to  London,  and  communicated
to  the  Royal  Society  about  the  end  of  1683.  At  or  near  this  pe
riod,  other  philosophers,  as  Sir  Christopher  Wren,  Dr.  Halley,
and  Dr.  Hooke,  were  engaged  in  investigating  the  same  subject ;
but  with  no  definite  or  satisfactory  results.  Dr.  Halley,  having
seen,  it  is  presumed,  our  author's  propositions,  went  in  August,
1684,  to  Cambridge  to  consult  with  him  upon  the  subject.
Newton  assured  him  that  he  had  brought  the  demonstration  to
perfection.  In  November,  Dr.  Halley  received  a  copy  of  the
work  ;  and,  in  the  following  month^  announced  .  it  to  the  Royal
Society,  with  the  author's  promise  to  have  it  entered  upon  their
Register.  Newton,  subsequently  reminded  by  the  Society  of  his
promise,  proceeded  in  the  diligent  preparation  of  the  work,  and.
though  suffering  an  interruption  of  six  weeks,  transmitted  the
manuscript  of  the  first  book  to  London  before  the  end  of  April.
The  work  was  entitled  PHILOSOPHI/E  NATURALIS  PRINCIPIA
MATHEMATICA,  dedicated  to  the  Royal  Society,  and  presented
thereto  on  the  28th  of  April,  1685-6.  The  highest  encomiums
were  passed  upon  it ;  and  the  council  resolved,  on  the  19th  of
May,  to  print  it  at  the  expense  of  the  Society,  and  under  the  di
rection  of  Dr.  Halley.  The  latter,  a  few  days  afterward,  com
municated  these  steps  to  Newton,  who,  in  a  reply,  dated  the  20th
of  June,  holds  the  following  language  : —  "  The  proof  you  sent  me
I  like  very  well.  I  designed  the  whole  to  consist  of  three  books  ;
the  second  was  finished  last  summer,  being  short,  and  only  wants
transcribing,  and  drawing  the  cuts  fairly.  Some  new  propositions
I  have  since  thought  on,  which  I  can  as  well  let  alone.  The
third  wants  the  theory  of  comets.  In  autumn  last,  I  spent  two
months  in  calculation  to  no  purpose  for  want  of  a  good  method,
which  made  me  afterward  return  to  the  first  book,  and  enlarge  it
with  diverse  propositions,  some*  relating  to  comets,  others  to  other
things  found  ouf  last  winter.  The  third  I  now  design  to  sup
press.  Philosophy  is  such  an  impertinently  litigious  lady,  that  a
man  had  as  good  be  engaged  in  l«iw-suits  as  have  to  do  with  her.
I  found  it  so  formerly,  and  now  I  can  no  sooner  come  near  her
again,  but  she  gives  me  warning.  The  first  two  books  without
the  third  will  not  so  well  bear  the  title  of  P/iilosophicc  Naturalis
3
32   LIFE    OF    SIR    ISAAC    NEWTON.
Principia  Mathematicia  ;  and  thereupon  I  had  altered  it  to  this,
De  Motu  Corporum  Libri  duo.  But  after  second  thought  I  re
tain  the  former  title.  It  will  help  the  sale  of  the  book,  which  I
ought  not  to  diminish  now  'tis  yours."
This  "  warning"  arose  from  some  pretensions  put  forth  by  Dr.
Hooke.  And  though  Newton  gave  a  minute  and  positive  refuta
tions  of  such  claims,  yet,  to  reconcile  all  differences,  he  gener
ously  added  to  Prop.  IV.  Cor.  6,  Book  I,  a  Scholium,  in  which
Wren,  Hooke  and  Halley  are  acknowledged  to  have  indepen
dently  deduced  the  law  of  gravity  from  the  second  law  of
Kepler.
The  suppression  of  the  third  book  Dr.  Halley  could  not  endure
to  see.  "  I  must  again  beg  you"  says  he,  "  not  to  let  your  re
sentments  run  so  high  as  to  deprive  us  of  your  third  book,  where
in  your  applications  of  your  mathematical  doctrine  to  the  theory
of  comets,  and  several  curious  experiments,  which,  as  I  guess  by
what  you  write  ought  to  compose  it,  will  undoubtedly  render  it
acceptable  to  those  who  will  call  themselves  philosophers  without
mathematics,  which  are  much  the  greater  number."  To  these
solicitations  Newton  yielded.  There  were  no  "resentments,"  how
ever,  as  we  conceive,  in  his  "  design  to  suppress."  He  sought
peace  ;  for  he  loved  and  valued  it  above  all  applause.  But,  in
spite  of  his  efforts  for  tranquillity's  sake,  his  course  of  discovery
was  all  along  molested  by  ignorance  or  presumptuous  rivalry.
The  publication  of  the  great  work  now  went  rapidly  forwards,
The  second  book  was  sent  to  the  Society,  and  presented  on  the
2d  March  ;  the  third,  on  the  6th  April ;  and  the  whole  was  com
pleted  and  published  in  the  month  of  May,  1686-7.  In  the  sec
ond  Lemma  of  the  second  book,  the  fundamental  principle  of  his
fiuxionary  calculus  was,  for  the  first  time,  given  to  the  world  ;  but
its  algorithm  or  notation  did  not  appear  till  published  in  the
second  volume  nf  Dr.  Wallis's  works,  in  1693.
And  thus  was  ushered  into  existence  The  PRINCIPIA — a  work
to  which  pre-eminence  above  all  the  productions  of  the  human
intellect  has  been  awarded — a  work  that  must  be  esteemed  of
priceless  worth  so  long  as  Science  has  a  votary,  or  a  single  wor
shipper  be  left  to  kneel  at  the  altar  of  Truth.
LIFE    OF    SIR    ISAAC    NEWTON.   33
The  entire  work  bears  the  general  title  of  THE  MATHEMATICAL
PRINCIPLES  OF  NATURAL  PHILOSOPHY.  It  consists  of  three  books:
the  first  two,  entitled,  OF  THE  MOTION  OF  BODIES,  are  occupied
with  the  laws  and  conditions  of  motions  and  forces,  and  are  illus
trated  with  many  scholia  treating  of  some  of  the  most  general
and  best  established  points  in  philosophy,  such  as  the  density  and
resistance  of  bodies,  spaces  void  of  matter,  and  the  motion  of
sound  and  light.  From  these  principles,  there  is  deduced,  in  the
third  book,  drawn  up  in  as  popular  a  style  as  possible  and  entitled,
OF  THE  SYSTEM  OF  THE  WORLD,  the  constitution  of  the  system  of
i he  world.  In  regard  to  this  book,  the  author  say^  — "  I  had,  indeed,
composed  the  third  Book  in  a  popular  method,  that  it  might  be  read
by  many  ;  but  afterwards,  considering  that  such  as  had  not  suf-
ficently  entered  into  the  principles  could  not  easily  discover  the
strength  of  the  consequences,  nor  lay  aside  the  prejudices  to  which
they  had  been  many  years  accustomed,  therefore,  to  prevent  dis
putes  which  might  be  raised  upon  such  accounts,  I  chose  to  reduce
the  substance  of  this  Book  into  the  form  of  Propositions  (in  the
mathematical  way),  which  should  be  read  by  those  only  who  had
first  made  themselves  masters  of  the  principles  established  in  the
preceding  Books  :  not  that  I  would  advise  any  one  to  the  previous
study  of  every  Proposition  of  those  Books." —  "It  is  enough  it
one  carefully  reads  the  Definitions,  the  Laws  of  Motion,  and  the
three  first  Sections  of  the  first  Book.  He  may  then  pass  on  to
this  Book,  and  consult  such  of  the  remaining  Propositions  of  the
first  two  Books,  as  the  references  in  this,  and  his  occasions  shall  re
quire."  So  that  "  The  System  of  the  World"  is  composed  both
"  in  a  popular  method,"  and  in  the  form  of  mathematical  Propo
sitions.
The  principle  of  Universal  Gravi'  ition,  namely,  that  every
particle  of  matter  is  attracted  by,  or  gravitates  to,  every  other
particle  of  matter,  icith  a  force  inversely  proportional  to  the
squares  of  their  distances — is  the  discovery  w?  ich  characterizes
The  PRINCIPIA.  This  principle  the  author  deduced  from  the  mo
tion  of  the  moon,  and  the  three  laws  of  Kepler — laws,  which
Newton,  in  turn,  by  his  greater  law,  demonstrated  to  be  true.
From  the  first  law  of  Kepler,  namely,  the   proportionality  of
LIFE    OF    SIR    ISAAC    NEWTON.
the  areas  to  t\ie  times  of  their  description,  our  author  inferred
that  the  force  which  retained  the  planet  in  its  orbit  was  always
directed  to  the  sun  ;  and  from  the  second,  namely,  that  every
planet  moves  in  an  ellipse  with  the  sun  in  one  of  its  foci,  he  drew
the  more  general  inference  that  the  force  by  which  the  planet
moves  round  that  focus  varies  inversely  as  the  square  of  its  dis
tance  therefrom  :  and  he  demonstrated  that  a  planet  acted  upon
by  such  a  force  could  not  move  in  any  other  curve  than  a  conic
section  ;  showing  when  the  moving  body  would  describe  a  circu
lar,  an  elliptical,  a  parabolic,  or  hyperbolic  orbit.  He  demon
strated,  too,  that  this  force,  or  attracting,  gravitating  power  re
sided  in  every,  the  least  particle  ;  but  that,  in  spherical  masses,  it
operated  as  if  confined  to  their  centres  ;  so  that,  one  sphere  or
body  will  act  upon  another  sphere  or  body,  with  a  force  directly
proportional  to  the  quantity  of  matter,  and  inversely  as  the  square
of  the  distance  between  their  centres;  and  that  their  velocities  of
mutual  approach  will  be  in  the  inverse  ratio  of  their  quantities  o*'
matter.  Thus  he  grandly  outlined  the  Universal  Law.  Verify
ing  its  truth  by  the  motions  of  terrestrial  bodies,  then  by  those  of
the  moon  and  other  secondary  orbs,  he  finally  embraced,  in  one
mighty  generalization,  the  entire  Solar  System —  all  the  move
ments  of  all  its  bodies — planets,  satellites  and  comets — explain
ing  and  harmonizing  the  many  diverse  and  theretofore  inexplica
ble  phenomena.
Guided  by  the  genius  of  Newton,  we  see  sphere  bound  to
sphere,  body  to  body,  particle  to  particle,  atom  to  mass,  the  min
utest  part  to  the  stupendous  whole — each  to  each,  each  to  all,
and  all  to  each — in  the  mysterious  bonds  of  a  ceaseless,  recipro
cal  influence.  An  influence  whose  workings  are  shown  to  be
alike  present  in  the  globular  dew-drop,  or  oblate-spheroidal  earth  ;
in  the  falling  shower,  or  vast  heaving  ocean  tides ;  in  the  flying
thistle-down,  or  fixed,  ponderous  rock  ;  in  the  swinging  pendulum,
or  time-measuring  sun  ;  in  the  varying  and  unequal  moon,  or
earth's  slowly  retrograding  poles  ;  in  the  uncertain  meteor,  or
oiazing  comet  wheeling  swiftly  away  on  its  remote,  yet  determined
round.  An  influence,  in  fine,  that  may  link  system  to  system
through  all  the  star-glowing  firmament  ;  then  firmament  to  iirma-
LIFE    OF    SIR    ISAAC    NEWTON.   35
merit  ;  aye,  firmament  to  firmament,  again  and  again,  till,  con
verging  home,  it  may  be,  to  some  ineffable  centre,  where  more
presently  dwells  He  who  inhabiteth  immensity,  and  where  infini
tudes  meet  and  eternities  have  their  condux,  and  where  around
move,  in  softest,  swiftest  measure,  all  the  countless  hosts  that
crowd  heaven's  fathomless  deeps.
And  yet  Newton,  amid  the  loveliness  and  magnitude  of  Om
nipotence,  lost  not  sight  of  the  Almighty  One.  A  secondary,
however  universal,  was  not  taken  for  the  First  Cause.  An  im
pressed  force,  however  diffused  and  powerful,  assumed  not  the
functions  of  the  creating,  giving  Energy.  Material  beauties,
splendours,  and  sublimities,  however  rich  in  glory,  and  endless  in
extent,  concealed  not  the  attributes  of  an  intelligent  Supreme.
From  the  depths  of  his  own  soul,  through  reason  and  the  WORD,
he  had  risen,  a  priori,  to  God  :  from  the  heights  of  Omnipotence,
through  the  design  and  law  of  the  builded  universe,  he  proved  </
posteriori,  a  Deity.  "  I  had,"  says  he,  "  an  eye  upon  such  prin
ciples  as  might  work,  with  considering  men,  for  the  belief  of  a
Deity,"  in  writing  the  PRINCIPIA  ;  at  the  conclusion  whereof,  he
teaches  that —  "  this  most  beautiful  system  of  the  sun,  planets  and
comets,  could  only  proceed  from  the  counsel  and  dominion  of  an
intelligent  and  powerful  Being.  And  if  the  fixed  stars  are  the
centres  of  other  like  systems,  these,  being  forme  1  by  the  like
wise  counsels,  must  be  all  subject  to  the  dominion  of  One ;  especially
since  the  light  of  the  fixed  stars  is  of  the  same  nature  with  the
light  of  the  sun,  and  from  every  system  light  passes  into  all  other
systems  :  and  lest  the  systems  of  the  fixed  stars  should,  by  their
gravity,  fall  on  each  other  mutually,  he  hath  placed  those  systems
at  immense  distances  one  from  another.
"  This  Being  governs  all  things,  not  as  the  soul  of  the  world,
but  as  Lord  over  all ;  and  on  account  of  his  dominion  he  is  wont,
to  be  called  Lord  God  Travrowparwp  or  Universal  Ruler  ;  for  God
is  a  relative  word,  and  has  a  respect  to  servants  ;  and  Deity  is
the  dominion  of  God,  not  over  his  own  body,  as  those  imagine
who  fancy  God  to  be  the  soul  of  the  world,  but  over  servants.
The  Supreme  God  is  a  Being  eternal,  infinite,  absolutely  perfect ;
but  a  being,  however  perfect,  without  dominion,  cannot  be  said  to
36   LIFE    OF    SIR    ISAAC    NEWTON.
be  Lord  God  ;  for  we  say,  my  God,  your  God,  the  God  of  Israel
the  God  of  Gods,  and  Lord  of  Lords  ;  but  we  do  not  say,  my
Eternal,  your  Eternal,  the  Eternal  of  Israel,  the  Eternal  of  Gods  :
we  do  not  say  my  Infinite,  or  my  Perfect  :  these  are  titles  which
have  no  respect  to  servants.  The  word  God  usually  signifies
Lord  ;  but  every  Lord  is  not  God.  It  is  the  dominion  of  a  spir
itual  Being  which  constitutes  a  God  ;  a  true,  supreme,  or  imagi
nary  dominion  makes  a  true,  supreme,  or  imaginary  God.  And
from  his  true  dominion  it  follows  that  the  true  God  is  a  living,
intelligent  and  powerful  Being ;  and  from  his  other  perfections,
that  he  is  supreme  or  most  perfect.  He  is  eternal  and  in
finite,  omnipotent  and  omniscient  ;  that  is,  his  duration  reaches
from  eternity  to  eternity  ;  his  presence  from  infinity  to  infinity ;
he  governs  all  things  and  knows  all  things,  that  are  or  can  be
done.  He  is  not  eternity  or  infinity,  but  eternal  and  infinite  ;
he  is  not  duration  and  space,  but  he  endures  and  is  present.
He  endures  forever  and  is  everywhere  present  ;  and  by  existing
always  and  everywhere,  he  constitutes  duration  and  space.  Since
every  particle  of  space  is  always,  and  every  indivisible  moment
of  duration  is  everywhere,  certainly  the  Maker  and  Lord  of  things
cannot  be  never  and  nowhere.  Every  soul  that  has  perception
is,  though  in  different  times  and  different  organs  of  sense  and  mo
tion,  still  the  same  indivisible  person.  There  are  given  succes
sive  parts  in  duration,  co-existent  parts  in  space,  but  neither  the
one  nor  the  other  in  the  person  of  a  man,  or  his  thinking
principle  ;  and  much  less  can  they  be  found  in  the  thinking  sub
stance  of  God.  Every  man.  so  far  as  he  is  a  thing  that  has  j:er-
ceptiori,  is  one  and  the  same  man  during  his  whole  life,  in  all  and
each  of  his  organs  of  sense.  God  is  one  and  the  same  God,  al
ways  and  everywhere.  He  is  omnipresent,  not  virtually  only,
but  also  substantially  ;  for  virtue  cannot  subsist  without  sub
stance.  In  him  are  all  things  contained  and  moved  ;  yet  neither
affects  the  other  ;  God  suffers  nothing  from  the  motion  of  bodies  ;
bodies  find  no  resistance  from  the  omnipresence  of  God.  It  is
allowed  by  all  that  the  Supreme  God  exists  necessarily  ;  and  by
the  same  necessity  he  exists  always  and  everywhere.  Whence
also  he  is  all  similar,  all  eye,  all  ear,  all  brain,  all  arm,  all  powei
LIFE    CF    SIR    ISAAC    NEWTON.   37
to  perceive,  to  understand,  and  to  act  ;  but  in  a  manner  not  at  all
human,  in  a  manner  not  at  all  corporeal,  in  a  manner  utterly  un
known  to  us.  As  a  blind  man  has  no  idea  of  colours,  so  have  we
no  idea  of  the  manner  by  which  the  all-wise  God  perceives  and
understands  all  things.  He  is  utterly  void  of  all  body,  and  bodily
figure,  and  can  therefore  neither  be  seen,  nor  heard,  nor  touched  ;
nor  ought  he  to  be  worshipped  under  the  representation  of  any
corporeal  thing.  We  have  ideas  of  his  attributes,  but  what  the
real  substance  of  anything  is  we  know  not.  In  bodies  we  see
only  their  figures  and  colours,  we  hear  only  the  sounds,  we  touch
only  their  outward  surfaces,  we  smell  only  the  smells,  and  taste
only  the  savours  ;  but  their  inward  substances  are  not  to  be  known,
either  by  our  senses,  or  by  any  reflex  act  of  our  minds  :  much
less,  then,  have  we  any  idea  of  the  substance  of  God.  We  know
him  only  by  his  most  wise  and  excellent  contrivances  of  things,
and  final  causes  ;  we  admire  him  for  his  perfections  ;  but  we  rev
erence  and  adore  him  on  account  of  his  dominion  ;  for  we  adore
him  as  his  servants  ;  and  a  god  without  dominion,  providence,  and
final  causes,  is  nothing  else  but  Fate  and  Nature.  Blind  meta
physical  necessity,  which  is  certainly  the  same  always  and  every
where,  could  produce  no  variety  of  things.  All  that  diversity  of
natural  things  which  we  find  suited  to  different  times  and  places
could  arise  from  nothing  but  the  ideas  and  will  of  a  Being  neces
sarily  existing."
Thus,  the  diligent  student  of  science,  the  earnest  seeker  of
truth,  led,  as  through  the  courts  of  a  sacred  Temple,  wherein,  at
each  step,  new  wonders  meet  the  eye,  till,  as  a  crowning  grace,
they  stand  before  a  Holy  of  Holies,  and  learn  that  all  science  and
all  truth  are  one  which  hath  its  beginning  and  its  end  in  the
knowledge  of  Him  whose  glory  the  heavens  declare,  and  whose
handiwork  the  firmament  showeth  forth.
The  introduction  of  the  pure  and  lofty  doctrines  of  the  PRIN-
CIPIA  was  perseveringly  resisted.  Descartes, with  his  system  of
vortices,  had  sown  plausibly  to  the  imagination,  and  error  had
struck  down  deeply,  and  shot  up  luxuriantly,  not  only  in  the
popular,  but  in  the  scientific  mind.  Besides  the  idea —  in  itself  so
simple  and  so  grand — that  the  great  masses  of  the  planets  were
38   LIFE    OF    SIR    ISAAC    NEWTON.
suspended  in  empty  space,  and  retained  in  their  orbits  by  an  in
visible  influence  residing  in  the  sun — was  to  the  ignorant  a  thing
inconceivable,  and  to  the  learned  a  revival  of  the  occult  qualities
of  the  ancient  physics.  This  remark  applies  particularly  to  the
continent.  Leibnitz  misapprehended  ;  Huygens  in  part  rejected  ;
John  Bernouilli  opposed  ;  and  Fontenelle  never  received  the  doc
trines  of  the  PRINCIPIA.  So  that,  the  saying  of  Voltaire  is  prob
ably  true,  that  though  Newton  survived  the  publication  of  his
great  work  more  than  forty  years,  yet,  at  the  time  of  his  death,
lie  had  not  above  twenty  followers  out  of  England.
But  in  England,  the  reception  of  our  author's  philosophy  was
rapid  and  triumphant.  His  own  labours,  while  Lucasian  Pro
fessor  ;  those  of  his  successors  in  that  Chair — Whiston  and
Saunderson  ;  those  of  Dr.  Samuel  Clarke,  Dr.  Laughton,  Roger
Cotes,  and  Dr.  Bentley  ;  the  experimental  lectures  of  Dr.  Keill
and  Desaguliers  ;  the  early  and  powerful  exertions  of  David
Gregory  at  Edinburgh,  and  of  his  brother  James  Gregory  at  St.
Andrew's,  tended  to  diffuse  widely  in  England  and  Scotland  a
knowledge  of,  and  taste  for  the  truths  of  the  PRINCIPIA.  Indeed,
its  mathematical  doctrines  constituted,  from  the  first,  a  regular
part  of  academical  instruction  ;  while  its  physical  truths,  given  to
the  public  in  popular  lectures,  illustrated  by  experiments,  had,
before  the  lapse  of  twenty  )  (  ar.s,  become  familiar  to,  and  adopted
by  the  general  mind.  Pemberton's  popular  "  View  of  Sir  Isaac
Newton's  Philosophy"  was  published,  in  1728  ;  and  the  year  after
ward,  an  English  translation  of  the  PRINCIPIA,  and  System  of  the
World,  by  Andrew  Motte.  And  since  that  period,  the  labours  of
Le  Seur  and  Jacquier,  of  Thorpe,  of  Jebb,  of  Wright  and  others
have  greatly  contributed  to  display  the  most  hidden  treasures  of
the  PRINCIPIA.
About  the  time  of  the  publication  of  the  Principia,  James  II.,
bent  on  re-establishing  the  Romish  Faith,  had,  among  other  ille
gal  acts,  ordered  by  mandamus,  the  University  of  Cambridge  to
confer  the  degree  of  Master  of  Arts  upon  an  ignorant  monk.
Obedience  to  this  mandate  was  resolutely  refused.  Newton  was
one  of  the  nine  delegates  chosen  to  defend  the  independence  of
the  University.  They  appeared  before  the  High  Court  ; — and
LIFE    OF    SIR    ISAAC    NEWTON.   39
successfully  :  the  king  abandoned  his  design.  The  prominent
part  which  our  author  took  in  these  proceedings,  and  his  eminence
in  the  scientific  world,  induced  his  proposal  as  one  of  the  parlia
mentary  representatives  of  the  University.  He  was  elected,  in
1688,  and  sat  in  the  Convention  Parliament  till  its  dissolution.
After  the  first  year,  however,  he  seems  to  have  given  little  or  no
attention  to  his  parliamentary  duties,  being  seldom  absent  from
the  University  till  his  appointment  in  the  Mint,  in  1695.
Newton  began  his  theological  researches  sometime  previous  to
1691  ;  in  the  prime  of  his  years,  and  in  the  matured  vigour  of
his  intellectual  powers.  From  his  youth,  as  we  have  seen,  he
had  devoted  himself  with  an  activity  the  most  unceasing,  and  an
energy  almost  superhuman  to  the  discovery  of  physical  truth  ; —
giving  to  Philosophy  a  new  foundation,  and  to  Science  a  new
temple.  To  pass  on,  then,  from  the  consideration  of  the  material,
more  directly  to  that  of  the  spiritual,  was  a  natural,  nay,  with  so
large  and  devout  a  soul,  a  necessary  advance.  The  Bible  was  to
him  of  inestimable  worth.  In  the  elastic  freedom,  which  a  pure
and  unswerving  faith  in  Him  of  Nazareth  gives,  his  mighty  facul
ties  enjoyed  the  only  completest  scope  for  development.  His
original  endowment,  however  great,  combined  with  a  studious
application,  however  profound,  would  never,  without  this  libera
tion  from  the  dominion  of  passion  and  sense,  have  enabled  him  to
attain  to  that  wondrous  concentration  and  grasp  of  intellect,  for
which  Fame  has  as  yet  assigned  him  no  equal.  Gratefully  he
owned,  therefore,  the'same  Author  in  the  Book  of  Nature  and  the
Book  of  Revelation.  These  were  to  him  as  drops  of  the  same
unfathomable  ocean  ; — as  outrayings  of  the  same  inner  splendour  ;
— as  tones  of  the  same  ineffable  voice  ; — as  segments  of  the  same
infinite  curve.  "With  great  joy  he  had  found  himself  enabled  to
proclaim,  as  an  interpreter,  from  the  hieroglyphs  of  Creation,  the
existence  of  a  God  :  and  now,  with  greater  joy,  and  in  the  fulness
of  his  knowledge,  and  in  the  fulness  of  his  strength,  he  laboured
to  make  clear,  from  the  utterances  of  the  inspired  Word,  the  far
mightier  confirmations  of  a  Supreme  Good,  in  all  its  glorious
amplitude  of  Being  and  of  Attribute  ;  and  to  bring  the  infallible
workings  thereof  plainly  home  to  the  understandings  and  the
40   LIFE    OF    SIR    ISAAC    NEWTON.
•affections  of  his  fellow-men  ;  and  finally  to  add  the  weight  of  his
own  testimony  in  favour  of  that  Religion,  whose  truth  is  now.  in
deed,  "  girded  with  the  iron  and  the  rock  of  a  ponderous  and  co
lossal  demonstration."
His  work,  entitled,  OBSERVATIONS  UPON  THE  PROPHECIES  OF
HOLY  WRIT,  PARTICULARLY  THE  PROPHECIES  OF  DANIEL  AND  THE
APOCALYPSE  OF  ST.  JOHN,  first  published  in  London,  in  1733  4to.
consists  of  two  parts  :  the  one  devoted  to  the  Prophecies  oi
Daniel,  and  the  other  to  the  Apocalypse  of  St.  John.  In  the  first
part,  he  treats  concerning  the  compilers  of  the  books  of  the  Old
Testament  ; — of  the  prophetic  language  ; — of  the  vision  of  the
four  beasts  ; — of  the  kingdoms  represented  by  the  feet  of  the
image  composed  of  iron  and  clay  ; — of  the  ten  kingdoms  repre
sented  by  the  ten  horns  of  the  beast  ; — of  the  eleventh  horn  of
Daniel's  fourth  beast  ;  of  the  power  which  should  change  times
and  laws  ;— of  the  kingdoms  represented  in  Daniel  by  the  ram
and  he-goat  ; — of  the  prophecy  of  the  seventy  weeks  ; — of  the
times  of  the  birth  and  passion  of  Christ  ; —  of  the  prophecy  of  the
Scripture  of  Truth  ; —  of  the  king  who  doeth  according  to  his  will,
and  magnified  himself  above  every  god,  and  honoured  Mahuzzims,
and  regarded  not  the  desire  of  women  ; — of  the  Mahuzzim,  hon
oured  by  the  king  who  doeth  according  to  his  will.  In  the  sec
ond  part,  he  treats  of  the  time  when  the  Apocalypse  was  written  ,
of  the  scene  of  the  vision,  and  the  relation  which  the  Apocalypse
has  to  the  book  of  the  law  of  Moses,  and  to  the  worship  of  God
in  the  temple  ; — of  the  relation  which  the  Apocalypse  has  to  the
prophecies  of  Daniel,  and  of  the  subject  of  the  prophecy  itself
Newton  regards  the  prophecies  as  given,  not  for  the  gratification
of  man's  curiosity,  by  enabling  him  to  foreknow  ;  but  for  his  con
viction  that  the  world  is  governed  by  Providence,  by  witnessing
their  fulfilment.  Enough  of  prophecy,  he  thinks,  has  already
been  fulfilled  to  afford  the  diligent  seeker  abundant  evidence  of
God's  providence.  The  whole  work  is  marked  by  profound
erudition,  sagacity  and  argument.
And  not  less  learning,  penetration  and  masterly  reasoning  are
conspicuous  in  his  HISTORICAL  ACCOUNT  OF  Two  NOTABLE
CORRUPTIONS  OF  SCRIPTURES  IN  A  LETTER  TO  A  FRIEND.  This
LIFE    OF    SIR    ISAAC    NEWTON.   41
Treatise,  first  accurately  published  in  Dr.  Horsley's  edition  of  his
works,  relates  to  two  texts  :  the  one,  1  Epistle  of  St.  John  v.  7 ;
the  other,  1  Epistle  of  St.  Paul  to  Timothy  iii.  16.  As  this
work  had  the  effect  to  deprive  the  advocates  of  the  doctrine  of
the  Trinity  of  two  leading  texts,  Newton  has  been  looked  upon
as  an  Arian  ;  but  there  is  absolutely  nothing  in  his  writings  to
warrant  such  a  conclusion.
His  regaining  theological  works  consist  of  the  LEXICON  PRO-
PHETICUM,  which  was  left  incomplete  ;  a  Latin  Dissertation  on
the  sacred  cubit  of  the  Jews,  which  was  translated  into  English,
and  published,  in  1737.  among  the  Miscellaneous  Works  of  John
Greaves  ;  and  FOUR  LETTERS  addressed  to  Dr.  Bentlty,  contain
ing  some  arguments  in  proof  of  a  Deity.  These  Letters  were
dated  respectively  :  10th  December,  1692  ;  17th  January,  1693  ;
25th  February,  1693;  and  llth  February,  1693— the  fourth
bearing  an  earlier  date  than  the  third.  The  best  faculties  and
the  profoundest  acquirements  of  our  author  are  convincingly
manifest  in  these  lucid  and  powerful  compositions.  They  were
published  in  1756,  and  reviewed  by  Dr.  Samuel  Johnson.
Newton's  religious  writings  are  distinguished  by  their  absolute
freedom  from  prejudice.  Everywhere,  throughout  them,  there
glows  the  genuine  nobleness  of  soul.  To  his  whole  life,  indeed,
we  may  here  fitly  extend  the  same  observation.  He  was  most
richly  imbued  with  the  very  spirit  of  the  Scriptures  which  he  so
delighted  to  study  and  to  meditate  upon.  His  was  a  piety,  so
fervent,  so  sincere  and  practical,  that  it  rose  up  like  a  holy  incense
from  every  thought  and  act.  His  a  benevolence  that  not  only
willed,  but  endeavoured  the  best  for  all.  His  a  philanthropy
that  held  in  the  embracings  of  its  love  every  brother-man.
His  a  toleration  of  the  largest  and  the  truest  ;  condemning  per
secution  in  every,  even  its  mildest  form  ;  and  kindly  encouraging
each  striving  after  excellence  : —  .1  toleration  that  came  not  of
indifference — for  the  immoral  and  the  impious  met  with  their
quick  rebuke — but  a  toleration  that  came  of  the  wise  humbleness
and  the  Christian  charity,  which  see,  in  the  nothingness  of  self
and  the  almightiness  of  TRUTH,  no  praise  for  the  ablest,  and  no
blame  for  th^  feeblest  in  their  strugglings  upward  to  light  and  life.
42   LIFE    OF    SIR    ISAAC    NEWTON,
Tn  the  winter  of  1691-2,  on  returning  from  chapel,  one  morn
ing,  Newton  foima  tnat  a  favourite  little  dog,  called  Diamond,
had  overturned  a  lighted  taper  on  his  desk,  and  that  several  pa
pers  containing  the  results  of  certain  optical  experiments,  were
nearly  consumed.  His  only  excl

---

n  back  from  rectilinear  motions,  and  turned  into  curvilinear  orbits,
are  one  to  another  as  the  versed  sines  of  arcs  described  in  equal  times ;  which
versed  sines  tend  to  the  centre  of  force,  and  bisect  the  chords  when  those
arcs  are  diminished  to  infinity.  For  such  versed  sines  are  the  halves  of
the  diagonals  mentioned  in  Cor.  3.
COR.  5.  And  therefore  those  forces  are  to  the  force  of  gravity  as  the  said
versed  sines  to  the  versed  sines  perpendicular  to  the  horizon  of  those  para
bolic  arcs  which  projectiles  describe  in  the  same  time.
COR.  6.  And  the  same  things  do  all  hold  good  (by  Cor.  5  of  the  Laws),
when  the  planes  in  which  the  bodies  are  moved,  together  with  the  centres
of  force  which  are  placed  in  those  planes,  are  not  at  rest,  but  move  uni
formly  forward  in  right  lines.
PROPOSITION  II.     THEOREM  II.
Every  body  that  moves  in  any  curve  line  described  in  a  plane,  and  by  a
radius,  drawn  to  a  point  either  immovable,  or  moving  forward  with
an  uniform  rectilinear  motion,  describes  about  that  point  areas  propor
tional  to  the  times,  is  urged  by  a  centripetal  force  directed  to  that  point
CASE.  1.  For  every  body
that  moves  in  a  curve  line,
is  (by  Law  1)  turned  aside
from  its   rectilinear   course
by  the  action  of  some  force
that  impels  it.  And  that  force
by  which  the  body  is  turned
off  from  its  rectilinear  course,
and  is  made  to  describe,  in
equal  times,  the  equal  least
triangles  SAB,  SBC,  SCD,
&c.,   about    the   immovable
point  S  (by  Prop.  XL.  Book
1,  Elem.  and  Law  II),   acts
in  the  place  B,  according  to
the  direction  of  a  line
par-
1U6   THE    MATHEMATICAL    PRINCIPLES   [BOOK    f.
allel  K  cC.  that  is,  in  the  direction  of  the  line  BS.  and  in  the  place  C,
accordii  g  to  the  direction  of  a  line  parallel  to  dD,  that  is,  in  the  direction
of  the  line  CS,  (fee.;  and  therefore  acts  always  in  the  direction  of  lines
tending  to  the  immovable  point  S.  Q.E.I).
CASE.  2.  And  (by  Cor.  5  of  the  Laws)  it  is  indifferent  whether  the  su-
perfices  in  which  a  body  describes  a  curvilinear  figure  be  quiescent,  or  moves
together  with  the  body,  the  figure  described,  and  its  point  S,  uniformly
forward  in  right  lines.
COR.  1.  In  non-resisting  spaces  or  mediums,  if  the  areas  are  not  propor
tional  to  the  times,  the  forces  are  not  directed  to  the  point  in  which  the
radii  meet ;  but  deviate  therefrom  in.  consequently  or  towards  the  parts  to
which  the  motion  is  directed,  if  the  description  of  the  areas  is  accelerated  ;
but  in  antecedentia,  if  retarded.
COR.  2.  And  even  in  resisting  mediums,  if  the  description  of  the  areas
is  accelerated,  the  directions  of  the  forces  deviate  from  the  point  in  which
the  radii  meet,  towards  the  parts  to  which  the  motion  tends.
SCHOLIUM.
A  body  may  be  urged  by  a  centripetal  force  compounded  of  several
forces ;  in  which  case  the  meaning  of  the  Proposition  is,  that  the  force
which  results  out  of  all  tends  to  the  point  S.  But  if  any  force  acts  per
petually  in  the  direction  of  lines  perpendicular  to  the  described  surface,
this  force  will  make  the  body  to  deviate  from  the  plane  of  its  motion  :  but
will  neither  augment  nor  diminish  the  quantity  of  the  described  surface
and  is  therefore  to  be  neglected  in  the  composition  of  forces.
PROPOSITION  III.     THEOREM   III.
Every  body,  that  by  a  radius  drawn  to  the  centre  of  another  body,  how
soever  moved,  describes  areas  about  that  centre  proportional  to  iJie  times,
is  urged  by  a  force  compounded  out  of  the  centripetal  force  Bending  fo
that  other  body,  and  of  all  the  accelerative  force  by  which  that  other
body  is  impelled.
Let  L  represent  the  one,  and  T  the  other  body  ;  and  (by  Cor.  0  of  the  Laws)
if  both  bodies  are  urged  in  the  direction  of  parallel  lines,  by  a  ne T  force
equal  and  contrary  to  that  by  which  the  second  body  T  is  tinned,  the  first
body  L  will  go  on  to  describe  about  the  other  body  T  the  same  areas  as
before  :  but  the  force  by  which  that  other  body  T  was  urged  will  be  now
destroyed  by  an  equal  and  contrary  force;  and  therefore  (by  Law  I.)  that
other  body  T,  now  left  to  itself,  will  either  rest,  or  move  uniformly  forward
in  a  right  line :  and  the  first  body  L  impelled  by  the  difference  of  the
forces,  that  is,  by  the  force  remaining,  will  go  on  to  describe  about  the  other
body  T  areas  proportional  to  the  times.  And  therefore  (by  Theor.  II.)  the
difference  ;f  the  forces  is  directed  to  the  other  body  T  as  its  centre.  Q.E.D
SEC.  IL]   OF    NATURAL    PHILOSOPHY.   107
Co.*.  1.  Hence  if  the  one  body  L,  by  a  radius  drawn  to  the  other  body  T,
describes  areas  proportional  to  the  times  ;  and  from  the  whole  force,  by  which
the  firr.t  body  L  is  urged  (whether  that  force  is  simple,  or,  according  to
Cor.  2  of  the  Laws,  compounded  out  of  several  forces),  we  subduct  (by  the
same  Cor.)  that  whole  accelerative  force  by  which  the  other  body  is  urged  ;
the  who_e  remaining  force  by  which  the  first  body  is  urged  will  tend  to  the
( ther  body  T,  as  its  centre.
COR.  2.  And,  if  these  areas  are  proportional  to  the  times  nearly,  the  re
maining  force  will  tend  to  the  other  body  T  nearly.
COR.  3.  And  vice  versa,  if  the  remaining  force  tends  nearly  to  the  other
body  T,  those  areas  will  be  nearly  proportional  to  the  times.
COR.  4.  If  the  body  L,  by  a  radius  drawn  to  the  other  body  T,  describes
areas,  which,  compared  with  the  times,  are  very  unequal  ;  and  that  other
body  T  be  either  at  rest,  or  moves  uniformly  forward  in  a  right  line  :  the
action  of  the  centripetal  force  tending  to  that  other  body  T  is  either  none
at  all,  or  it  is  mixed  and  compounded  with  very  powerful  actions  of  other
forces :  and  the  whole  force  compounded  of  them  all,  if  they  are  many,  is
directed  to  another  (immovable  or  moveaJble)  centre.  The  same  thing  ob
tains,  when  the  other  body  is  moved  by  any  motion  whatsoever  ;  provided
that  centripetal  force  is  taken,  wrhich  remains  after  subducting  that  whole
force  acting  upon  that  other  body  T.
SCHOLIUM.
Because  the  equable  description  of  areas  indicates  that  a  centre  is  re
spected  by  that  force  with  which  the  body  is  most  affected,  and  by  which  it
is  drawn  back  from  its  rectilinear  motion,  and  retained  in  its  orbit  ;  why
may  we  not  be  allowed,  in  the  following  discourse,  to  use  the  equable  de
scription  of  areas  as  an  indication  of  a  centre,  about  which  all  circular
motion  is  performed  in  free  spaces  ?
PROPOSITION  IV.     THEOREM  IV.
The  centripetal  forces  of  bodies,  which  by  equable  'motions  describe  differ
ent  circles,  tend  to  the  centres  of  the  same  circles  ;  and  are  one  to  tJie
other  as  the  squares  of  t/ie  arcs  described  in  equal  times  applied  to  the
radii  of  the  circles.
These  forces  tend  to  the  centres  of  the  circles  (by  Prop.  II.,  and  Cor.  2,
Prop.  L),  and  are  one  to  another  as  the  versed  sines  of  the  least  arcs  de
scribed  in  equal  times  (by  Cor.  4,  Prop.  I.) ;  that  is,  as  the  squares  of  the
same  arcs  applied  to  the  diameters  of  the  circles  (by  Lem.  VII.) ;  and  there
fore  since  those  arcs  are  as  arcs  described  in  any  equal  times,  and  the  dia-
me  ers  ace  as  the  radii,  the  forces  will  be  as  the  squares  of  any  arcs  de-
scr  bed  in  the  same  time  applied  to  the  radii  of  the  circles.  Q.E.D.
^OR.  1.  Therefore,  since  those  arcs  are  as  the  velocities  of  the  bodies.
I  OS   THE    MATHEMATICAL    PRINCIPLES   [BOOK    .
the  centripetal  forces  are  in  a  ratio  compounded  of  the  duplicate  ra'jio  of
the  velocities  directly,  and  of  the  simple  ratio  of  the  radii  inversely.
COR.  2.  And  since  the  periodic  times  are  in  a  ratio  compounded  of  the
ratio  of  the  radii  directly,  and  the  ratio  of  the  velocities  inversely,  the  cen
tripetal  forces,  are  in  a  ratio  compounded  of  the  ratio  of  the  radii  directly,
and  the  duplicate  ratio  of  the  periodic  times  inversely.
COR,  3.  Whence  if  the  periodic  times  are  equal,  and  the  velocities
therefore  as  the  radii,  the  centripetal  forces  will  be  also  as  the  radii ;  and
tke  contrary.
COR.  4.  If  the  periodic  times  and  the  velocities  are  both  in  the  subdu-
plicate  ratio  of  the  radii,  the  centripetal  forces  will  be  equal  among  them
selves  ;  and  the  contrary.
COR.  5.  If  the  periodic  times  are  as  the  radii,  and  therefore  the  veloci
ties  equal,  the  centripetal  forces  will  be  reciprocally  as  the  radii  ;  and  the
contrary.
COR.  6.  If  the  periodic  times  are  in  the  sesquiplicate  ratio  of  the  radii,
and  therefore  the  velocities  reciprocally  in  the  subduplicate  ratio  of  the
radii,  the  centripetal  forces  will  be  in  the  duplicate  ratio  of  the  radii  in
versely  :  and  the  contrary.
COR.  7.  And  universally,  if  the  periodic  time  is  as  any  power  Rn  of  the
radius  R,  and  therefore  the  velocity  reciprocally  as  the  power  Rn  ]  of
the  radius,  the  centripetal  force  will  be  reciprocally  as  the  power  R2n  1  of
the  radius;  and  the  contrary.
COR.  8.  The  same  things  all  hold  concerning  the  times,  the  velocities,
and  forces  by  which  bodies  describe  the  similar  parts  of  any  similar  figures
that  have  their  centres  in  a  similar  position  with  those  figures  ;  as  appears
by  applying  the  demonstration  of  the  preceding  cases  to  those.  And  the
application  is  easy,  by  only  substituting  the  equable  description  of  areas  in
the  place  of  equable  motion,  and  using  the  distances  of  the  bodies  from  the
centres  instead  of  the  radii.
COR.  9.  From  the  same  demonstration  it  likewise  follows,  that  the  arc
which  a  body,  uniformly  revolving  in  a  circle  by  means  of  a  given  centri
petal  force,  describes  in  any  time,  is  a  mean  proportional  between  the
diameter  of  the  circle,  and  the  space  which  the  same  body  falling  by  the
same  given  force  would  descend  through  in  the  same  given  time.
SCHOLIUM.
The  case  of  the  6th  Corollary  obtains  in  the  celestial  bodies  (as  Sir
Christopher  Wren,  Dr.  Hooke,  and  Dr.  Halley  have  severally  observed)  ;
and  therefore  in  what  follows,  I  intend  to  treat  more  at  large  of  those
things  which  relate  to  centripetal  force  decreasing  in  a  duplicate  ratio
of  the  distances  from  the  centres.
Moreover,  by  means  of  the  preceding  Proposition  and  its  Corollaries,  we
SEC.  II.]   OF    NATURAL    PHILOSOPHY.   109
may  discover  the  proportion  of  a  centripetal  force  to  any  other  known
force,  such  as  that  of  gravity.  For  if  a  body  by  means  of  its  gravity  re
volves  in  a  circle  concentric  to  the  earth,  this  gravity  is  the  centripetal
force  of  that  body.  But  from  the  descent  of  heavy  bodies,  the  time  of  one
entire  revolution,  as  well  as  the  arc  described  in  any  given  time,  is  given
(by  Cor.  9  of  this  Prop.).  And  by  such  propositions,  Mr.  Huygens,  in  his
excellent  book  De  Horologio  Oscillatorio,  has  compared  the  force  of
gravity  with  the  centrifugal  forces  of  revolving  bodies.
The  preceding  Proposition  may  be  likewise  demonstrated  after  this
manner.  In  any  circle  suppose  a  polygon  to  be  inscribed  of  any  number
of  sides.  And  if  a  body,  moved  with  a  given  velocity  along  the  sides  of  the
polygon,  is  reflected  from  the  circle  at  the  several  angular  points,  the  force,
with  which  at  every  reflection  it  strikes  the  circle,  will  be  as  its  velocity  :
and  therefore  the  sum  of  the  forces,  in  a  given  time,  will  be  as  that  ve
locity  and  the  number  of  reflections  conjunctly  ;  that  is  (if  the  species  of
the  polygon  be  given),  as  the  length  described  in  that  given  time,  and  in
creased  or  diminished  in  the  ratio  of  the  same  length  to  the  radius  of  the
circle ;  that  is,  as  the  square  of  that  length  applied  to  the  radius ;  and
therefore  the  polygon,  by  having  its  sides  diminished  in'inftnitum,  coin
cides  with  the  circle,  as  the  square  of  the  arc  described  in  a  given  time  ap
plied  to  the  radius.  This  is  the  centrifugal  force,  with  which  the  body
impels  the  circle ;  and  to  which  the  contrary  force,  wherewith  the  circle
continually  repels  the  body  towards  the  centre,  is  equal.
PROPOSITION  V.     PROBLEM  I.
There  being  given,  in  any  places,  the  velocity  with  which  a  body  de
scribes  a  given  figure,  by  means  of  forces  directed  to  some  common
centre  :  to  find  that  centre.
Let  the  three  right  lines  PT,  TQV,  VR
touch  the  figure  described  in  as  many  points,
P,  Q,  R,  and  meet  in  T  and  V.  On  the  tan
gents  erect  the  perpendiculars  PA,  QB,  RC,
reciprocally  proportional  to  the  velocities  of  the
body  in  the  points  P,  Q,  R,  from  which  the
perpendiculars  were  raised ;  that  is,  so  that  PA
may  be  to  QB  as  the  velocity  in  Q  to  the  velocity  in  P,  and  QB  to  RC
as  the  velocity  in  R  to  the  velocity  in  Q.  Through  the  ends  A,  B,  C,  of
the  perpendiculars  draw  AD,  DBE,  EC,  at  right  angles,  meeting  in  D  and
E :  and  the  right  lines  TD,  VE  produced,  will  meet  in  S,  the  centre  re
quired.
For  the  perpendiculars  let  fall  from  the  centre  S  on  the  tangents  PT.
QT.  are  reciprocally  as  the  velocities  of  the  bodies  in  the  points  P  and  Q
110   THE    MATHEMATICAL    PRINCIPLES   [BOOK    1
(by  Cor.  1,  Prop.  I.),  and  therefore,  by  construction,  as  the  perpendiculars
AP,  BQ,  directly  ;  that  is,  as  the  perpendiculars  let  fall  from  the  point  D
on  the  tangents.  Whence  it  is  easy  to  infer  that  the  points  S,  D,  T,  are
in  one  right  line.  And  by  the  like  argument  the  points  S,  E,  V  are  also
in  one  right  line  ;  and  therefore  the  centre  S  is  in  the  point  where  the
right  lines  TD;  YE  meet.  Q.E.D.
PROPOSITION  VL     THEOREM  V.
In  a  space  void  of  resistance,  if  a  body  revolves  in  any  orbit  about  an  im
movable  centre,  and  in  the  least  time  describes  any  arc  just  then,  na
scent  ;  and  the  versed  sine  of  that  arc  is  supposed  to  be  drawn  bisect
ing  the  chord,  and  produced  passing  through  the  centre  of  force:  the
centripetal  force  in  the  middle  of  the  arc  will  be  as  the  versed  sine  di
rectly  and  the  square  of  the  time  inversely.
For  the  versed  sine  in  a  given  time  is  as  the  force  (by  Cor.  4,  Prop.  1)  ;
and  augmenting  the  time  in  any  ratio,  because  the  arc  will  be  augmented
in  the  same  ratio,  the  versed  sine  will  be  augmented  in  the  duplicate  of
that  ratio  (by  Cor.  2  and  3,  Lem.  XL),  and  therefore  is  as  the  force  and  the
square  of  the  time.     Subduct  on  both  sides  the  duplicate  ratio   of  the
time,  and  the  force  will  be  as  the  versed  sine  directly,  arid  the  square  of
the  time  inversely.     Q.E.D.
And  the  same  thing  may  also   be  easily  demonstrated   by  Corol.   4?
T,em.  X.
COR.  1.  If  a  body  P  revolving  about  the
centre  S  describes  a  curve  line  APQ,,  which  a
right  line  ZPR  touches  in  any  point  P  ;  and
from  any  other  point  Q,  of  the  curve,  QJl  is
drawn  parallel  to  the  distance  SP,  meeting
the  tangent  in  R  ;  and  QT  is  drawn  perpen-
(licular  to  the  distance  SP  ;  the  centripetal  force  will  be  reciprocally  as  the
sp2  x  Q/r2
solid  -  —      :—  ,  if  the  solid  be  taken  of  that  magnitude  which  it  ulti-
mately  acquires  when  the  points  P  and  Q,  coincide.  For  Q,R  is  equal  to
the  versed  sine  of  double  the  arc  QP,  whose  middle  is  P  :  and  double  the
triangle  SQP,  or  SP  X  Q,T  is  proportional  to  the  time  in  which  that
double  arc  is  described  ;  and  therefore  may  be  used  for  the  exponent  of
the  time.
COR.  2.  By  a  like  reasoning,  the  centripetal  force  is  reciprocally  as  the
SY2  X  QJP2
solid  -  7^5  -  ;  if  SY  is  a  perpendicular  from  the  centre  of  force  on
PR  the  tangent  of  the  orbit.     For  the  rectangles  SY  X  QP  and  SP  X  Q,T
are  equal.
SEC.  II.]   OF    NATURAL    PHILOSOPHY.   Ill
COR.  3.  If  the  orbit  is  cither  a  circle,  or  touches  or  cuts  a  circle  c<  ncen-
trically,  that  is,  contains  with  a  circle  the  least  angle  of  contact  or  sec
tion,  having  the  same  curvature  rnd  the  same  radius  of  curvature  at  the
point  P  :  and  if  PV  be  a  chord  of  this  circle,  drawn  from  the  body  through
the  centre  of  force  ;  the  centripetal  force  will  be  reciprocally  as  the  solid
QP2
SY2  X  PV.     For  PV  is       -  .
COR.  4.  The  same  things  being  supposed,  the  centripetal  force  is  as  the
square  of  the  velocity  directly,  and  that  chord  inversely.  For  the  velocity
is  reciprocally  as  the  perpendicular  SY,  by  Cor.  1.  Prop.  I.
COR.  5.  Hence  if  any  curvilinear  figure  APQ,  is  given,  and  therein  a
point  S  is  also  given,  to  which  a  centripetal  force  is  perpetually  directed.
that  law  of  centripetal  force  may  be  found,  by  which  the  body  P  will  bcj
continually  drawn  back  from  a  rectilinear  course,  and.  being  detained  in
the  perimeter  of  that  figure,  will  describe  the  same  by  a  perpetual  revolu-
SP2  x  QT2
tion.     That  is,  we  are  to  find,  by  computation,  either  the  solid  ----  -
or  the  solid  SY2  X  PV,  reciprocally  proportional  to  this  force.     Example:
of  this  we  shall  give  in  the  following  Problems.
PROPOSITION  VII.     PROBLEM  II.
Tf  a  body  revolves  in  the  circumference  of  a  circle;  it  is  proposed  to  finii
the  law  of  centripetal  force  directed  to  any  given,  point.
Let  VQPA  be  the  circumference  of  the
circle  ;  S  the  given  point  to  which  as  to
a  centre  the  force  tends  :  P  the  body  mov
ing  in  the  circumference  ;  Q  the  next
place  into  which  it  is  to  move;  and  PRZ
the  tangent  of  the  circle  at  the  preceding
place.  Through  the  point  S  draw  the  v
chord  PV,  and  the  diameter  VA  of  the
circle  :  join  AP,  and  draw  Q,T  perpen
dicular  to  SP,  which  produced,  may  meet
the  tangent  PR  in  Z  ;  and  lastly,  through
the  point  Q,  draw  LR  parallel  to  SP,  meeting  the  circle"  in  L,  and  the tangent  PZ  in  R.  And,  because  of  the  similar  triangles  ZQR,  ZTP.
VPA,  we  shall  have  RP2,  that  is.  QRL  to  QT2  as  AV2  to  PV2.  And
QRlj  x  PV2   SI3-'
therefore  '-    —TS  --  is  equal  to  QT2.     Multiply  those  equals  by     -'.
and  the  points  P  and  Q,  coinciding,  for  RL  write  PV  ;  then  we  shall  have
SP-'  X  PV5       SP2  x  QT2
—  •     And  therefore  fl»r  Cor  1  and  5.  Prop.  VI.)
112   THE   MATHEMATICAL    PRINCIPLES   [BOOK    I,
SP2  X  PV3
the  centripetal  force  is  reciprocally  as  -  —  ry^~  —  J  that  is  (because  AV2
ia  given),  reciprocally  as  the  square  of  the  distance  or  altitude  SP,  and  the
3ube  of  the  chord  PV  conjunctly.     Q.E.L
The  same  otherwise.
On  the  tangent  PR  produced  let  fall  the  perpendicular  SY  ;  and  (be
cause  of  the  similar  triangles  SYP,  VPA),  we  shall  have  AV  to  PV  as  SP
SP  X  PV   SP2  ><  PV3
to  SY,  and  therefore  --  ^~—  -  =  SY,  and  -    —  ^-  =  SY2  X  PV. A  V   A  V
And  therefore  (by  Corol.  3  and  5,  Prop.  VI),  the  centripetal  force  is  recip-
SP2  X  PV3
rocally  as  -  ~~ry¥~~~  I  *na*  *s  (because  AV  is  given),  reciprocally  as  SP"
X  PV3.     Q.E.I.
Con.  1.  Hence  if  the  given  point  S,  to  which  the  centripetal  force  al
ways  tends,  is  placed  in  the  circumference  of  the  circle,  as  at  V,  the  cen
tripetal  force  will  be  reciprocally  as  the  quadrato-cube  (or  fifth  power)  of
the  altitude  SP.
COR.  2.  The  force  by  which  the  body  P  in  the
circle  APTV  revolves  about  the  centre  of  force  S
is  to  the  force  by  which  the  same  body  P  may  re
volve  in  the  same  circle,  and  in  the  same  periodic
time,  about  any  other  centre  of  force  R,  as  RP2  X
SP  to  the  cube  of  the  right  line  SG,  which,  from
the  first  centre  of  force  S  is  drawn  parallel  to  the
distance  PR  of  the  body  from  the  second  centre  of  force  R,  meeting  the
tangent  PG  of  the  orbit  in  G.  For  by  the  construction  of  this  Proposition,
the  former  force  is  to  the  latter  as  RP2  X  PT3  to  SP2  X  PV3;  that  is,  as
SP3  X  PV3
SP  X  RP2  to  --  p™  —  ;  or  (because  of  the  similar  triangles  PSG,  TPV)
to  SGS.
COR.  3.  The  force  by  which  the  body  P  in  any  orbit  revolves  about  the
centre  of  force  S,  is  to  the  force  by  which  the  same  body  may  revolve  in
the  same  orbit,  and  the  same  periodic  time,  about  any  other  centre  of  force
R.  as  the  solid  SP  X  RP2,  contained  under  the  distance  of  the  body  from
the  first  centre  of  force  S,  and  the  square  of  its  distance  from  the  sec
ond  centre  of  force  R,  to  the  cube  of  the  right  line  SG,  drawn  from  the
first  centre  of  the  force  S,  parallel  to  the  distance  RP  of  the  body  from
fch*3  second  centre  of  force  R,  meeting  the  tangent  PG  of  the  orbit  in  G.
For  the  force  in  this  orbit  at  any  point  P  is  the  same  as  in  a  circle  of  the
same  curvature.
SJSG.  IL]  OF    NATURAL    PHILOSOPHY.  113
PROPOSITION  VIII.     PROBLEM  III.
If  a  body  mi  ues  in  the  semi-circuwferencePQA:  it  is  proposed  to  find
the  law  of  the  centripetal  force  tending  to  a  point  S,  so  remote,  that  all
the  lines  PS.  RS  drawn  thereto,  may  be  taken  for  parallels.
From  C,  the  centre  of  the  semi-circle,  let
the  semi-diameter  CA  he  drawn,  cutting  the
parallels  at  right  angles  in  M  and  N,  and
join  CP.     Because  of  the  similar  triangles
CPM,  PZT,  and  RZQ,  we  shall  have  CP2
to  PM2  as  PR2  to  QT2;  and,  from  the  na
ture  of  the  circle,  PR2  is  equal  to  the  rect
angle  QR  X  RN  +  QN,  or,  the  points  P,  Q  coinciding,  to  the  rectangle
QR  x  2PM.     Therefore  CP2  is  to  PM2  as  QR  X  2PM  to  QT2;  and
QT2        2PM3   QT2  X  SP2        2PM3  X  SP2  therefore  (by
QR
Corol.
8PM3  X  SP2
,
and
QR
And
1    and   5,   Prop.   VI.),    the   centripetal   force   is   reciprocally   as
2SP2
.
that  is  (neglecting  the  given  ratio  -ppr)>  reciprocally  as
PM3.     Q.E.L
And  the  same  thing  is  likewise  easily  inferred  from  the  preceding  Pro
position.
SCHOLIUM.
And  by  a  like  reasoning,  a  body  will  be  moved  in  an  ellipsis,  or  even  ia
an  hyperbola,  or  parabola,  by  a  centripetal  force  which  is  reciprocally  ae
the  cube  of  the  ordinate  directed  to  an  infinitely  remote  centre  of  force.
PROPOSITION  IX.     PROBLEM   IV.
If  a  body  revolves  in  a  spiral  PQS,  cutting  all  the  radii  SP,  SQ,  fyc.,
in  a  given  angle;  it  is  proposed  to  find  thelaio  of  the  centripetal  force
tending  to  tJie  centre  of  that  spiral.
Suppose  the  inde
finitely   small    angle   AY
PSQ  to  be  given  ;  be
cause,    then,    all    the
angles  are  given,  the
figure  SPRQT   will    ,  _
be    given    in   specie.  v QT   Q,T2
Therefore  the  ratio  -7^-  is  also  given,  and    „„    is  as  QT,  that  is  (be lot  IX   QK
cause  the  figure  is  given  in  specie),  as  SP.     But  if  the  angle  PSQ  is  any
way  changed,  the  right  line  QR,  subtending  the  angle  of  contact  QPU
tU  THE    MATHEMATICAL    PRINCIPLES
[BOOK    J
(by  Lemma  XI)  will  be  changed  in  the  duplicate  ratio  of  PR  or  QT
QT2
Therefore  the  ratio  ~TVD~ remains  the  same  as  before,  that  is,  as  SP.   And
QT2  x  SP2
— -^    is  as  SP3,  and  therefore  (by  Corol.  1  and  5,  Prop.  YI)  the
centripetal  force  is  reciprocally  as  the  cube  of  the  distance  SP.     Q.E.I.
The  same  otherwise.
The  perpendicular  SY  let  fall  upon  the  tangent,  and  the  chord  PY  of
the  circle  concentrically  cutting  the  spiral,  are  in  given  ratios  to  the  height
SP ;  and  therefore  SP3  is  as  SY2  X  PY,  that  is  (by  Corol.  3  and  5,  Prop.
YI)  reciprocally  as  the  centripetal  force.
LEMMA  XII.
All  parallelograms  circumscribed  about  any  conjugate  diameters  of  a
given  ellipsis  or  hyperbola  are  equal  among  themselves.
This  is  demonstrated  by  the  writers  on  the  conic  sections.
PROPOSITION  X.     PROBLEM  Y.
If  a  body  revolves  in  an  ellipsis  ;  it  is  proposed  to  find  the  law  of  thi
centripetal  force  tending  to  the  centre  of  the  ellipsis.
Suppose  CA,  CB  to
be  semi-axes  of  the
ellipsis;  GP, DK, con
jugate  diameters  ;  PF,
Q,T  perpendiculars  to
those  diameters;  Qvan
^rdinate  to  the  diame
ter  GP  ;  and  if  the
parallelogram  QvPR
be  completed,  then  (by
the  properties  of  the
jonic  sections)  the  rec-
langle  PvG  will  be  to
Qv2  as  PC2  to  CD2;
and  (because  of  the
similar  triangles  Q^T,  PCF),  Qi>2  to  QT2  as  PC2  to  PF2  ;  and,  by  com
position,  the  ratio  of  PvG  to  QT2  is  compounded  of  the  ratio  of  PC2  1<
QT2
CD2,
and
of    the    ratio
of    PC2
to  PF2,
that
is,   vG   to  -p—
as  PC;
to_92L^_P_]^_.     Put  QR  for  Pr,  and  (by  Lem.  XII)  BC  X  CA  for  CD
K  PF  ;  also  (the  points  P  and  Q  coinciding)  2PC  for  rG;  and  multiply-
SEC.  II.]   OF    NATURAL    PHILOSOPHY.   115
QT2  x  PC2 ing  the  extremes  and  means  together,  we  shall  have    rfo~    equal  to
2BC2  X  CA2
— pp —  — .     Therefore  (by  Cor.  5,  Prop.  VI),  the  centripetal  force  is
2BC2  X  CA2
reciprocally  as  —    — ry~    ;    that  is  (because  2I3C2  X  CA2  is  given),  re
ciprocally  as-r^v;  that  is,  directly  as  the  distance  PC.     QEI. I  O
TJie  same  otherwise.
[n  the  right  line  PG  on  the  other  side  of  the  point  T,  take  the  point  u
so  that  Tu  may  be  equal  to  TV  ;  then  take  uV,  such  as  shall  be  to  v G  as
DC2  to  PC2.  And  because  Qr9  is  to  PvG  as  DC'2  to  PC2  (by  the  conic
sections),  we  shall  have  Qv2  •-=  Pi'  X  «V.  Add  the  rectangle  n.Pv  to  both
sides,  and  the  square  of  the  chord  of  the  arc  PQ,  will  be  equal  to  the  rect
angle  VPv  ;  and  therefore  a  circle  which  touches  the  conic  section  in  P,
and  passes  through  the  point  Q,,  will  pass  also  through  the  point  V.  Now
let  the  points  P  and  Q,  meet,  and  the  ratio  of  nV  to  rG,  which  is  the  same
with  the  ratio  of  DC2  to  PC2,  will  become  the  ratio  of  PV  to  PG,  or  PV
2DC2
to  2PC  :  and  therefore  PY  will  be  equal  to    „„ — .     And    therefore    the
force  by  which  the  body  P  revolves  in  the  ellipsis  will  be  reciprocally  as
2  DC2
— ry—  X  PF2  (by  Cor.  3,  Prop.  VI) ;    that  is  (because  2DC2  X  PF2  is I  O
given)  directly  as  PC.     Q.E.I.
COR.  1.  And  therefore  the  force  is  as  the  distance  of  the  body  from  the
centre  of  the  ellipsis ;  and,  vice  versa,  if  the  force  is  as  the  distance,  the
body  will  move  in  an  ellipsis  whose  centre  coincides  with  the  centre  of  force,
or  perhaps  in  a  circle  into  which  the  ellipsis  may  degenerate.
COR.  2.  And  the  periodic  times  of  the  revolutions  made  in  all  ellipses
whatsoever  about  the  same  centre  will  be  equal.  For  those  times  in  sim
ilar  ellipses  will  be  equal  (by  Corol.  3  and  S,  Prop.  IV) ;  but  in  ellipses
that  have  their  greater  axis  common,  they  are  one  to  another  as  the  whole
areas  of  the  ellipses  directly,  and  the  parts  of  the  areas  described  in  the
same  time  inversely:  that  is,  as  the  lesser  axes  directly,  and  the  velocities
of  the  bodies  in  their  principal  vertices  inversely ;  :hat  is,  as  those  lesser
axes  dirtily,  and  the  ordinates  to  the  same  point  %f  the  common  axes  in
versely  ;  and  therefore  (because  of  the  equality  of  the  direct  and  inverse
ratios)  in  the  ratio  of  equality.
SCHOLIUM.
If  the  ellipsis,  by  having  its  centre  removed  to  an  infinite  distance,  de
generates  into  a  parabola,  the  body  will  move  in  tin's  parabola  ;  and  the
116  THE    MATHEMATICAL    PRINCIPLES
[BOOK  I
force,  now  tending  to  a  centre  infinitely  remote,  will  become  equable.
Which  is  Galileo  s  theorem.  And  if  the  parabolic  section  of  the  cone  (by
changing  the  inclination  of  the  cutting  plane  to  the  cone)  degenerates  into
an  hyperbola,  the  body  will  move  in  the  perimeter  of  this  hyperbola,  hav
ing  its  centripetal  force  changed  into  a  centrifugal  force.  And  in  like
manner  as  in  the  circle,  or  in  the  ellipsis,  if  the  forces  are  directed  to  the
centre  of  the  figure  placed  in  the  abscissa,  those  forces  by  increasing  or  di
minishing  the  ordinates  in  any  given  ratio,  or  even  by  changing  the  angle
of  the  inclination  of  the  ordinates  to  the  abscissa,  are  always  augmented
or  diminished  in  the  ratio  of  the  distances  from  the  centre  ;  provided  the
periodic  times  remain  equal ;  so  also  in  all  figures  whatsoever,  if  the  ordi-
nates  are  augmented  or  diminished  in  any  given  ratio,  or  their  inclination
is  any  way  changed,  the  periodic  time  remaining  the  same,  the  forces  di
rected  to  any  centre  placed  in  the  abscissa  are  in  the  several  ordinatee
augmented  or  diminished  in  the  ratio  of  the  distances  from  the  centre
SECTION  III.
Of  the  motion  of  bodies  in  eccentric  conic  sections.
PROPOSITION  XL     PROBLEM  VI.
If  a  body  revolves  in  an  ellipsis  ;  it  is  required  to  find  the  law  of  the
centripetal  force  tending  to  the  focus  of  the  ellipsis.
Let  S  be  the  focus
of  the  ellipsis.  Draw
SP  cutting  the  diame
ter  DK  of  the  ellipsis
in  E,  and  the  ordinate
Qv  in  x ;  and  com
plete  the  parallelogram
d.rPR,  It  is  evident
that  EP  is  equal  to  the
greater  semi-axis  AC  :
for  drawing  HI  froln
the  other  focus  H  of
the  ellipsis  parallel  to
EC,  because  CS,  CH
are  equal,  ES,  El  will
be  also  equal ;  so  that  EP  is  the  half  sum  of  PS,  PI,  that  is  (because  of
the  parallels  HI,  PR,  and  the  equal  angles  IPR,  HPZ),  of  PS,  PH,  which
taken  together  are  equal  to  the  whole  axis  2AC.  Draw  QT  perpendicu
lar  to  SP,  and  putting  L  for  the  princi  al  latus  rectum  of  the  ellipsis  (or  for
III.   OF    NATURAL    PHILOSOPHY.   117
L    X    ^R  t0  L    X    Py  aS  ^R  t0  PV   that  1S>  US  PE
or  AC  to  PC  ;  and  L  X  Pv  to  GvP  as  L  to  Gy  ;  and  GvP  to  Qi>2  as
to  CD-  ;  and  by  (Corol.  2,  Lem.  VII)  the  points  Q,  and  P  coinciding,  Qv*
is  to  Q,r-  in  the  ratio  of  equality  ;  and  Q,.r2  or  Qv2  is  to  Q,T2  as  EP2  to
PF2,  that  is,  as  CA2  to  PF2,  or  (by  Lem.  XII)  as  CD'2  to  CB2.  And  com
pounding  all  those  ratios  together,  we  shall  have  L  X  QR  to  Q,T2  as  AC
X  L  X  PC2  X  CD2,  or  2CB2  X  PC2  X  CD2  to  PC  X  Gv  X  CD2  X
CB2,  or  as  2PC  to  Gv.  But  the  points  Q  and  P  coinciding,  2PC  and  Gr
are  equal.  And  therefore  the  quantities  L  X  QR  and  Q,T2,  proportional
SP2
to  these,  will  be  also  equal.     Let  those  equals  be  drawn  into-p^B"?  and  L
SP2  X  QT2
X  SP2  will  become  equa

---

 right  line,  and  that  with  an  uniform  motion,, if  the  re
sistance  of  the  air  was  taken  away.  It  is  by  its  gravity  that  it  is  drawn
aside  perpetually  from  its  rectilinear  course,  and  made  to  deviate  towards
the  earth,  more  or  less,  according  to  the  force  of  its  gravity,  and  the  velo
city  of  its  motion.  The  less  its  gravity  is,  for  the  quantity  of  its  matter,
or  the  greater  the  velocity  with  which  it  is  projected,  the  less  will  it  devi
ate  from  a  rectilinear  course,  and  the  farther  it  will  go.  If  a  leaden  balJ,
projected  from  the  top  of  a  mountain  by  the  force  of  gunpowder  with  a
given  velocity,  and  in  a  direction  parallel  to  the  horizon,  is  carried  in  a
curve  line  to  the  distance  of  two  miles  before  it  falls  to  the  ground  ;  the
same,  if  the  resistance  of  the  air  were  taken  away,  with  a  double  or  decuple
velocity,  would  fly  twice  or  ten  times  as  far.  And  by  increasing  the  velo
city,  we  may  at  pleasure  increase  the  distance  to  which  it  might  be  pro
jected,  and  diminish  the  curvature  of  the  line,  which  it  might  describe,  till
at  last  it  should  fall  at  the  distance  of  10,  30,  or  90  degrees,  or  even  might
go  quite  round  the  whole  earth  before  it  falls ;  or  lastly,  so  that  it  might
never  fall  to  the  earth,  but  go  forward  into  the  celestial  spaces,  and  pro
ceed  in  its  motion  in  iiifiuitum.  And  after  the  same  manner  that  a  pro
jectile,  by  the  force  of  gravity,  may  be  made  to  revolve  in  an  orbit,  and  go
round  the  whole  earth,  the  moon  also,  either  by  the  force  of  gravity,  if  it
is  endued  with  gravity,  or  by  any  other  force,  that  impels  it  towards  the
earth,  may  be  perpetually  drawn  aside  towards  the  earth,  out  of  the  r&ti-
linear  way,  which  by  its  innate  force  it  would  pursue;  and  would  be  made
to  revolve  in  the  orbit  which  it  now  describes  ;  nor  could  the  moon  with
out  some  such  force,  be  retained  in  its  orbit.  If  this  force  was  too  small,
it  would  not  sufficiently  turn  the  moon  out  of  a  rectilinear  course  :  if  it
was  too  great,  it  would  turn  it  too  much,  arid  draw  down  the  moon  from
its  orbit  towards  the  earth.  It  is  necessary,  that  the  force  be  of  a  just
quantity,  and  it  belongs  to  the  mathematicians  to  find  the  force,  that  may
serve  exactly  to  retain  a  body  in  a  given  orbit,  with  a  given  velocity ;  and
vice  versa,  to  determine  the  curvilinear  way,  into  which  a  body  projected
from  a  given  place,  with  a  given  velocity,  may  be  made  to  deviate  from
its  natural  rectilinear  way,  by  means  of  a  given  force.
The  quantity  of  any  centripetal  force  may  be  considered  as  of  three
kinds;  aboolu'e,  accelerative,  and  motive.
DEFINITION  VI.
The  absolute  quantity  of  a  centripetal  force  is  the  measure  f>f  the  same
proportional  to  the  efficacy  of  the  cause  that  propagates  it  from  the  cen
tre,  through  the  spaces  round  about.
Thus  the  magnetic  force  is  greater  in  one  load-stone  and  less  in  another
according  to  their  sizes  and  strength  of  intensity.
76   THE    MATHEMATICAL    PRINCIPLES
DEFINITION  VII.
The  accelerative  quantity  of  a  centripetal  force  is  the  measure,  of  tht
same,  proportional  to  the  velocity  which  it  generates  in  a  given  time.
Thus  the  force  of  the  same  load-stone  is  greater  at  a  less  distance,  and
less  at  a  greater :  also  the  force  of  gravity  is  greater  in  valleys,  less  on
tops  of  exceeding  high  mountains  ;  and  yet  less  (as  shall  hereafter  be  shown),
at  greater  distances  from  the  body  of  the  earth ;  but  at  equal  distan
ces,  it  is  the  same  everywhere  ;  because  (taking  away,  or  allowing  for,  the
resistance  of  the  air),  it  equally  accelerates  all  falling  bodies,  whether  heavy
or  light,  great  or  small.
DEFINITION  VIII.
TJie  motive  quantity  of  a  centripetal  force,  is  the  measure  of  the  samt\
proportional  to  the  motion  which  it  generates  in  a  given  twip.
Thus  the  weight  is  greater  in  a  greater  body,  less  in  a  less  body ;  and.
in  the  same  body,  it  is  greater  near  to  the  earth,  and  less  at  remoter  dis
tances.  This  sort  of  quantity  is  the  centripetency,  or  propension  of  the
whole  body  towards  the  centre,  or,  as  I  may  say,  its  weight ;  and  it  is  al
ways  known  by  the  quantity  of  an  equal  and  contrary  force  just  sufficient
to  Ifinder  the  descent  of  the  body.
These  quantities  of  forces,  we  may,  for  brevity's  sake,  call  by  the  names
of  motive,  accelerative,  and  absolute  forces ;  and,  for  distinction's  sake,  con
sider  them,  with  respect  to  the  bodies  that  tend  to  the  centre  ;  to  the  places
of  those  bodies  ;  and  to  the  centre  of  force  towards  which  they  tend  ;  that
is  to  say,  I  refer  the  motive  force  to  the  body  as  an  endeavour  and  propen
sity  of  the  whole  towards  a  centre,  arising  from  the  propensities  of  the
several  parts  taken  together ;  the  accelerative  force  to  the  place  of  the
body,  as  a  certain  power  or  energy  diffused  from  the  centre  to  all  places
around  to  move  the  bodies  that  are  in  them  :  and  the  absolute  force  to
the  centre,  as  endued  with  some  cause,  without  which  those  motive  forces
would  not  be  propagated  through  the  spaces  round  about  ;  whether  that
cause  be  some  central  body  (siuh  as  is  the  load-stone,  in  the  centre  of  the
magnetic  force,  or  the  earth  in  the  centre  of  the  gravitating  force),  or
anything  else  that  does  not  yet  appear.  For  I  here  design  only  to  give  a
mathematical  notion  of  those  forces,  without  considering  their  physical
causes  and  seats.
Wherefore  the  accelerative  force  will  stand  in  the  same  relation  to  the
motive,  as  celerity  does  to  motion.  For  the  quantity  of  motion  arises  from
the  celerity  drawn  into  the  quantity  of  matter  :  and  the  motive  force  arises
from  the  accelerative  force  drawn  into  the  same  quantity  of  matter.  For
the  sum  of  the  actions  of  the  accelerative  force,  upon  the  several  ;  articles
of  the  body,  is  the  motive  force  of  the  whole.  Hence  it  is,  that  near  the
OF    NATURAL    PHILOSOPHY.   77
surface  of  the  earth,  where  the  accelerative  gravity,  or  force  productive  of
gravity,  in  all  bodies  is  the  same,  the  motive  gravity  or  the  weight  is  as
the  body :  but  if  we  should  ascend  to  higher  regions,  where  the  accelerative
gravity  is  less,  the  weight  would  be  equally  diminished,  and  would  always
be  as  the  product  of  the  body,  by  the  accelerative  gravity.  So  in  those  re
gions,  where  the  accelerative  gravity  is  diminished  into  one  half,  the  weight
of  a  body  two  or  three  times  less,  will  be  four  or  six  times  less.
I  likewise  call  attractions  and  impulses,  in  the  same  sense,  accelerative,
and  motive  ;  and  use  the  words  attraction,  impulse  or  propensity  of  any
sort  towards  a  centre,  promiscuously,  and  indifferently,  one  for  another  ;
considering  those  forces  not  physically,  but  mathematically  :  wherefore,  the
reader  is  not  to  imagine,  that  by  those  words,  I  anywhere  take  upon  me  to
define  the  kind,  or  the  manner  of  any  action,  the  causes  or  the  physical
reason  thereof,  or  that  I  attribute  forces,  in  a  true  and  physical  sense,  to
certain  centres  (which  are  only  mathematical  points) ;  when  at  any  time  I
happen  to  speak  of  centres  as  attracting,  or  as  endued  with  attractive
powers.
SCHOLIUM.
Hitherto  I  have  laid  down  the  definitions  of  such  words  as  are  less
known,  and  explained  the  sense  in  which  I  would  have  them  to  be  under
stood  in  the  following  discourse.  I  do  not  define  time,  space,  place  and
motion,  as  being  well  known  to  all.  Only  I  must  observe,  that  the  vulgar
conceive  those  quantities  under  no  other  notions  but  from  the  relation  they
bear  to  sensible  objects.  And  thence  arise  certain  prejudices,  for  the  re
moving  of  which,  it  will  be  convenient  to  distinguish  them  into  absolute
and  relative,  true  and  apparent,  mathematical  and  common.
I.  Absolute,  true,  and  mathematical  time,  of  itself,  and  from  its  own  na
ture  flows  equably  without  regard  to  anything  external,  and  by  another
name  is  called  duration  :  relative,  apparent,  and  common  time,  is  some  sen
sible  and  external  (whether  accurate  or  unequable)  measure  of  duration  by
the  means  of  motion,  which  is  commonly  used  instead  of  true  time ;  such
as  an  hour,  a  day,  a  month,  a  year.
II.  Absolute  space,  in  its  own  nature,  without  regard  to  anything  exter
nal,  remains  always  similar  and  immovable.     Relative  space  is  some  mo
vable  dimension  or  measure  of  the  absolute  spaces  ;  which  our  senses  de
termine  by  its  position  to  bodies  ;  and  which  is  vulgarly  taken  for  immo
vable  space ;  such  is  the  dimension  of  a  subterraneous,  an  aereal,  or  celestial
space,  determined  by  its  position  in  respect  of  the  earth.     Absolute  and
relative  space,  are  the  same  in  figure  and  magnitude  ;  but  they  do  not  re
main  always  numerically  the  same.     For  if  the  earth,  for  instance,  moves,
a  space  of  our  air,  which  relatively  and  in  respect  of  the  earth  remains  al
ways  the  same,  will  at  one  time  be  one  part  of  the  absolute  space  into  which
TS   THE    MATHEMATICAL    PRINCIPLES
the  air  passes  ;  at  another  time  it  will  be  another  part  of  the  same,  and  so.
absolutely  understood,  it  will  be  perpetually  mutable.
III.  Place  is  a  part  of  space  which  a  body  takes  up,  and  is  according  to
the  space,  either  absolute  or  relative.   I  say,  a  part  of  space ;  not  the  situation,
nor  the  external  surface  of  the  body.     For  the  places  of  equal  solids  are
always  equal ;  but  their  superfices,  by  reason  of  their  dissimilar  figures,  are
often  unequal.     Positions  properly  have  no  quantity,  nor  are  they  so  much
the  places  themselves,  as  the  properties  of  places.     The  motion  of  the  whole
is  the  same  thing  with  the  sum  of  the  motions  of  the  parts ;  that  is,  the
translation  of  the  whole,  out  of  its  place,  is  the  same  thing  with  the  sum
of  the  translations  of  the  parts  out  of  their  places ;  and  therefore  the  place
of  the  whole  is  the  same  thing  with  the  sum  of  the  places  of  the  parts,  and
for  that  reason,  it  is  internal,  and  in  the  whole  body.
IV.  Absolute  motion  is  the  translation  of  a  body  from  one  absolute
place  into  another  ;  and  relative  motion,  the  translation  from  one  relative
place  into  another.     Thus  in  a  ship  under  sail,  the  relative  place  of  a  body
is  that  part  of  the  ship  which  the  body  possesses  ;  or  that  part  of  its  cavity
which  the  body  fills,  and  which  therefore  moves  together  with  the  ship :
and  relative  rest  is  the  continuance  of  the  body  in  the  same  part  of  the
ship,  or  of  its  cavity.     But  real,  absolute  rest,  is  the  continuance  of  the
body  in  the  same  part  of  that  immovable  space,  in  which  the  ship  itself,
its  cavity,  and  all  that  it  contains,  is  moved.     Wherefore,  if  the  earth  is
really  at  rest,  the  body,  which  relatively  rests  in  the  ship,  will  really  and
absolutely  move  with  the  same  velocity  which  the  ship  has  on  the  earth.
But  if  the  earth  also  moves,  the  true  and  absolute  motion  of  the  body  will
arise,  partly  from  the  true  motion  of  the  earth,  in  immovable  space ;  partly
from  the  relative  motion  of  the  ship  on  the  earth ;  and  if  the  body  moves
also  relatively  in  the  ship ;  its  true  motion  will  arise,  partly  from  the  true
motion  of  the  earth,  in  immovable  space,  and  partly  from  the  relative  mo
tions  as  well  of  the  ship  on  the  earth,  as  of  the  body  in  the  ship  ;  and  from
these  relative  motions  will  arise  the  relative  motion  of  the  body  on  the
earth.     As  if  that  part  of  the  earth,  where  the  ship  is,  was  truly  moved
toward  the  east,  with  a  velocity  of  10010  parts;  while  the  ship  itself,  with
a  fresh  gale,  and  full  sails,  is  carried  towards  the  west,  with  a  velocity  ex
pressed  by  10  of  those  parts  ;  but  a  sailor  walks  in  the  ship  towards  the
east,  with  1  part  of  the  said  velocity ;  then  the  sailor  will  be  moved  truly
in  immovable  space  towards  the  east,  with  a  velocity  of  10001  parts,  and
relatively  on  the  earth  towards  the  west,  with  a  velocity  of  9  of  those  parts.
Absolute  time,  in  astronomy,  is  distinguished  from  relative,  by  the  equa
tion  or  correction  of  the  vulgar  time.  For  the  natural  days  are  tr^y  un
equal,  though  they  are  commonly  considered  as  equal,  and  used  for  a  meas
ure  of  time ;  astronomers  correct  this  inequality  for  their  more  accurate
deducing  of  the  celestial  motions.  It  may  be,  that  there  is  no  such  thing
as  an  equable  motion,  whereby  time  may  H  accurately  measured.  All  mo
OF    NATURAL    PHILOSOPHY.   79
tions  may  be  accelerated  and  retarded;  but  the  true,  or  equable,  progress  of
absolute  time  is  liable  to  no  change.  The  duration  or  perseverance  of  the
existence  of  things  remains  the  same,  whether  the  motions  are  swift  or  slow,
or  none  at  all :  and  therefore  it  ought  to  be  distinguished  from  what  are
only  sensible  measures  thereof  ;  and  out  of  which  we  collect  it,  by  means
of  the  astronomical  equation.  The  necessity  of  which  equation,  for  deter
mining  the  times  of  a  phamomenon,  is  evinced  as  well  from  the  experiments
of  the  pendulum  clock,  as  by  eclipses  of  the  satellites  of  Jupiter.
As  the  order  of  the  parts  of  time  is  immutable,  so  also  is  the  order  of
the  parts  of  space.  Suppose  those  parts  to  be  moved  out  of  their  places,  and
they  will  be  moved  (if  the  expression  may  be  allowed)  out  of  themselves.
For  times  and  spaces  are,  as  it  were,  the  places  as  well  of  themselves  as  of
all  other  things.  All  things  are  placed  in  time  as  to  order  of  succession  ;
and  in  space  as  _to  order  of  situation.  It  is  from  their  essence  or  nature
that  they  are  places ;  and  that  the  primary  places  of  things  should  be
moveable,  is  absurd.  These  are  therefore  the  absolute  places ;  and  trans
lations  out  of  those  places,  are  the  only  absolute  motions.
But  because  the  parts  of  space  cannot  be  seen,  or  distinguished  from  one
another  by  our  senses,  therefore  in  their  stead  we  use  sensible  measures  of
them.  For  from  the  positions  and  distances  of  things  from  any  body  con
sidered  as  immovable,  we  define  all  places ;  and  then  with  respect  to  such
places,  we  estimate  all  motions,  considering  bodies  as  transferred  from  some
of  those  places  into  others.  And'so,  instead  of  absolute  places  and  motions,
we  use  relative  ones;  and  that  without  any  inconvenience  in  common  af
fairs  ;  but  in  philosophical  disquisitions,  we  ought  to  abstract  from  our
senses,  and  consider  things  themselves,  distinct  from  what  are  only  sensible
measures  of  them.  For  it  may  be  that  there  is  no  body  really  at  rest,  to
which  the  places  and  motions  of  others  may  be  referred.
But  we  may  distinguish  rest  and  motion,  absolute  and  relative,  one  from
the  other  by  their  properties,  causes  and  effects.  It  is  a  property  of  rest,
that  bodies  really  at  rest  do  rest  in  respect  to  one  another.  And  therefore
as  it  is  possible,  that  in  the  remote  regions  of  the  fixed  stars,  or  perhaps
far  beyond  them,  there  may  be  some  body  absolutely  at  rest ;  but  impossi
ble  to  know,  from  the  position  of  bodies  to  one  another  in  our  regions
whether  any  of  these  do  keep  the  same  position  to  that  remote  body;  it
follows  that  absolute  rest  cannot  be  determined  from  the  position  of  bodies
in  our  regions.
It  is  a  property  of  motion,  that  the  parts,  which  retain  given  positions
to  their  wholes,  do  partake  of  the  motions  of  those  wholes.  For  all  the
parts  of  revolving  bodies  endeavour  to  recede  from  the  axis  of  motion  ;
and  the  impetus  of  bodies  moving  forward,  arises  from  the  joint  impetus
of  all  the  parts.  Therefore,  if  surrounding  bodies  are  moved,  those  that
are  relatively  at  rest  within  them,  will  partake  of  their  motion.  Upon
which  account,  the  true  and  absolute  motion  of  a  body  cannot  be  Jeter-
8C   THE    MATHEMATICAL    PRINCIPLES
mined  by  the  translation  of  it  from  those  which  only  seem  to  rest ;  for  the
external  bodies  ought  not  only  to  appear  at  rest,  but  to  be  really  at  rest.
For  otherwise,  all  included  bodies,  beside  their  translation  from  near  the
surrounding  ones,  partake  likewise  of  their  true  motions  ;  and  though  that
translation  were  not  made  they  would  not  be  really  at  rest,  but  only  seem
to  be  so.  For  the  surrounding  bodies  stand  in  the  like  relation  to  the
surrounded  as  the  exterior  part  of  a  whole  does  to  the  interior,  or  as  the
shell  does  to  the  kernel  ;  but,  if  the  shell  moves,  the  kernel  will  also
move,  as  being  part  of  the  whole,  without  any  removal  from  near  the  shell.
A  property,  near  akin  to  the  preceding,  is  this,  that  if  a  place  is  moved,
whatever  is  placed  therein  moves  along  with  it ;  and  therefore  a  body,
which  is  moved  from  a  place  in  motion,  partakes  also  of  the  motion  of  its
place.  Upon  which  account,  all  motions,  from  places  in  motion,  are  no
other  than  parts  of  entire  and  absolute  motions  ;  and  every  entire  motion
is  composed  of  the  motion  of  the  body  out  of  its  first  place,  and  the
motion  of  this  place  out  of  its  place ;  and  so  on,  until  we  come  to  some
immovable  place,  as  in  the  before-mentioned  example  of  the  sailor.  Where
fore,  entire  and  absolute  motions  can  be  no  otherwise  determined  than  by
immovable  places :  and  for  that  reason  I  did  before  refer  those  absolute
motions  to  immovable  places,  but  relative  ones  to  movable  places.  Now
no  other  places  are  immovable  but  those  that,  from  infinity  to  infinity,  do
all  retain  the  same  given  position  one  to  another  ;  and  upon  this  account
must  ever  remain  unmoved  ;  and  do  thereby  constitute  immovable  space.
The  causes  by  which  true  and  relative  motions  are  distinguished,  one
from  the  other,  are  the  forces  impressed  upon  bodies  to  generate  motion.
True  motion  is  neither  generated  nor  altered,  but  by  some  force  impressed
upon  the  body  moved  :  but  relative  motion  may  be  generated  or  altered
without  any  force  impressed  upon  the  body.  For  it  is  sufficient  only  to
impress  some  force  on  other  bodies  with  which  the  former  is  compared,
that  by  their  giving  way,  that  relation  may  be  changed,  in  which  the  re
lative  rest  or  motion  of  this  other  body  did  consist.  Again,  true  motion
suffers  always  some  change  from  any  force  impressed  upon  the  moving
body  ;  but  relative  motion  docs  not  necessarily  undergo  any  change  by  such
forces.  For  if  the  same  forces  are  likewise  impressed  on  those  other  bodies,
with  which  the  comparison  is  made,  that  the  relative  position  may  be  pre
served,  then  that  condition  will  be  preserved  in  which  the  relative  motion
consists.  And  therefore  any  relative  motion  may  be  changed  when  the
true  motion  remains  unaltered,  and  the  relative  may  be  preserved  when  the
true  suffers  some  change.  Upon  which  accounts;  true  motion  does  by  no
means  consist  in  such  relations.
The  effects  whicli  distinguish  absolute  from  relative  motion  arc,  the
forces  of  receding  from  the  axis  of  circular  motion.  For  there  are  no  such
forces  in  a  circular  motion  purely  relative,  but  in  a  true  and  absolute  cir
cular  motion.,  they  are  greater  or  less,  according  t »  the  quantity  of  the
OF    NATURAL    PHILOSOPHY.   «1
motion.  If  a  vessel,  hung:  by  &  }ong  cord,  is  so  often  turned  ubout  that  the
cord  is  strongly  twisted,  then  filled  with  water,  and  held  at  rest  together
with  the  water  ;  after,  by  the  sudden  action  of  another  force,  it  is  whirled
about  the  contrary  way,  and  while  the  cord  is  untwisting  itself,  the  vessel
continues  for  some  time  in  this  motion  ;  the  surface  of  the  water  will  at
first  be  plain,  as  before  the  vessel  began  to  move  :  but  the  vessel;  by  grad
ually  communicating  its  motion  to  the  water,  will  make  it  begin  sensibly
^to  revolve,  and  recede  by  little  and  little  from  the  middle,  and  ascend  to  the
sides  of  the  vessel,  forming  itself  into  a  concave  figure  (as  I  have  experi
enced),  and  the  swifter  the  motion  becomes,  the  higher  will  the  water  rise,
till  at  last,  performing  its  revolutions  in  the  same  times  with  the  vessel,
it  becomes  relatively  at  rest  in  it.  This  ascent  of  the  water  shows  its  en
deavour  to  recede  from  the  axis  of  its  motion  ;  and  the  true  and  absolute
circular  motion  of  the  water,  which  is  here  directly  contrary  to  the  rela-
tivej  discovers  itself,  and  may  be  measured  by  this  endeavour.  At  first,
when  the  relative  motion  of  the  water  in  the  vessel  was  greatest,  it  pro
duced  no  endeavour  to  recede  from  the  axis ;  the  water  showed  no  tendency
to  the  circumference,  nor  any  ascent  towards  the  sides  of  the  vessel,  but
remained  of  a  plain  surface,  and  therefore  its  true  circular  motion  had  not
yet  begun.  But  afterwards,  when  the  relative  motion  of  the  water  had
decreased,  the  ascent  thereof  towards  the  sides  of  the  vessel  proved  its  en
deavour  to  recede  from  the  axis ;  and  this  endeavour  showed  the  real  cir
cular  motion  of  the  water  perpetually  increasing,  till  it  had  acquired  its
greatest  quantity,  wh en  the  water  rested  relatively  in  the  vessel.  And
therefore  this  endeavour  does  not  depend  upon  any  translation  of  the  water
in  respect  of  the  ambient  bodies,  nor  can  true  circular  motion  be  defined
by  such  translation.  There  is  only  one  real  circular  motion  of  any  one
revolving  body,  corresponding  to  only  one  power  of  endeavouring  to  recede
from  its  axis  of  motion,  as  its  proper  and  adequate  effect  ;  but  relative
motions,  in  one  and  the  same  body,  are  innumerable,  according  to  the  various
relations  it  bears  to  external  bodies,  and  like  other  relations,  arc  altogether
destitute  of  any  real  effect,  any  otherwise  than  they  may  perhaps  par
take  of  that  one  only  true  motion.  And  therefore  in  their  system  who
suppose  that  our  heavens,  revolving  below  the  sphere  of  the  fixed  stars,
carry  the  planets  along  with  them  ;  the  several  parts  of  those  heavens,  and
the  planets,  which  are  indeed  relatively  at  rest  in  their  heavens,  do  yet
really  move.  For  they  change  their  position  one  to  another  (which  never
happens  to  bodies  truly  at  rest),  and  being  carried  together  with  their
heavens,  partake  of  their  motions,  and  as  parts  of  revolving  wholes,
endeavour  to  recede  from  the  axis  of  their  motions.
Wherefore  relative  quantities  are  not  the  quantities  themselves,  whose
names  they  bear,  but  those  sensible  measures  of  them  (either  accurate  cr
inaccurate),  which  arc  commonly  used  instead  of  the  measured  quantities
themselves.  And  if  the  meaning  of  words  is  to  he  determined  bv  their
82   THE  MATHEMATICAL    PRINCIPLES
use,  then  by  the  names  time,  space,  place  and  motion,  their  measures  arv
properly  to  be  understood  ;  and  the  expression  will  be  unusual,  and  purely
mathematical,  if  the  measured  quantities  themselves  are  meant.  Upon
which  account,  they  do  strain  the  sacred  writings,  who  there  interpret
those  words  for  the  measured  quantities.  Nor  do  those  less  defile  the
purity  of  mathematical  and  philosophical  truths,  who  confound  real  quan
tities  themselves  with  their  relations  and  vulgar  measures.
It  is  indeed  a  matter  of  great  difficulty  to  discover,  and  effectually  to
distinguish,  the  true  motions  of  particular  bodies  from  the  apparent ;  be
cause  the  parts  of  that  immovable  space,  in  which  those  motions  are  per
formed,  do  by  no  means  come  under  the  observation  of  our  senses.  Yet
the  thing  is  not  altogether  desperate :  for  we  have  some  arguments  to
guide  us,  partly  from  the  apparent  motions,  which  are  the  differences  of
the  true  motions  ;  partly  from  the  forces,  which  are  the  causes  and  effects
of  the  true  motions.  For  instance,  if  tAvo  globes,  kept  at  a  given  distance
one  from  the  other  by  means  of  a  cord  that  connects  them,  were  revolved
about  their  common  centre  of  gravity,  we  might,  from  the  tension  of  the
cord,  discover  the  endeavour  of  the  globes  to  recede  from  the  axis  of  their
motion,  and  from  thence  we  might  compute  the  quantity  of  their  circular
motions.  And  then  if  any  equal  forces  should  be  impressed  at  once  on  the
alternate  faces  of  the  globes  to  augment  or  diminish  their  circular  motions,
from  the  increase  or  decr»  ase  of  the  tensicn  of  1  le  cord,  we  might  infer
the  increment  or  decrement  of  their  motions  :  and  thence  would  be  found
on  what  faces  those  forces  ought  to  be  impressed,  that  the  motions  of  the
globes  might  be  most  augmented  ;  that  is,  we  might  discover  their  hinder-
most  faces,  or  those  which,  in  the  circular  motion,  do  follow.  But  the
faces  which  follow  being  known,  and  consequently  the  opposite  ones  that
precede,  we  should  likewise  know  the  determination  of  their  motions.  And
thus  we  might  find  both  the  quantity  and  the  determination  of  this  circu
lar  motion,  even  in  an  immense  vacuum,  where  there  was  nothing  external
or  sensible  with  which  the  globes  could  be  compared.  But  now,  if  in  that
space  some  remote  bodies  were  placed  that  kept  always  a  given  position
one  to  another,  as  the  fixed  stars  do  in  our  regions,  we  could  not  indeed
determine  from  the  relative  translation  of  the  globes  among  those  bodies,
whether  the  motion  did  belong  to  the  globes  or  to  the  bodies.  But  if  we
observed  the  cord,  and  found  that  its  tension  was  that  very  tension  which
the  motions  of  the  globes  required,  we  might  conclude  the  motion  to  be  in
the  globes,  and  the  bodies  to  be  at  rest  ;  and  then,  lastly,  from  the  trans
lation  of  the  globes  among  the  bodies,  we  should  find  the  determination  oi
their  motions.  But  how  we  are  to  collect  the  true  motions  from  their
causes,  effects,  and  apparent  differences  ;  and,  vice  versa,  how  from  the  mo
tions,  either  true  or  apparent,  we  may  come  to  the  knowledge  of  theii
causes  and  effects,  shall  be  explained  more  at  large  in  the  following  tra<;t
For  to  this  end  it  was  that  I  composed  it.
OF    NATURAL    PHILOSOPHY.
AXIOMS,  OR  LAWS  OF  MOTION.
LAW  I.
Hvery  body  perseveres  in  its  state  of  rest,  or  of  uniform  motion  in  a  ri^ht
line,  unless  it  is  compelled  to  change  that  state  by  forces  impressed
thereon.
PROJECTILES  persevere  in  their  motions,  so  far  as  they  are  not  retarded
by  the  resistance  of  the  air,  or  impelled  downwards  by  the  force  of  gravity
A  top,  whose  parts  by  their  cohesion  are  perpetually  drawn  aside  from
rectilinear  motions,  does  not  cease  its  rotation,  otherwise  than  as  it  is  re
tarded  by  the  air.  The  greater  bodies  of  the  planets  and  comets,  meeting
with  less  resistance  in  more  free  spaces,  preserve  then  jDotions  both  pro
gressive  and  circular  for  a  much  longer  time.
LAW   II.
The  alteration  of  motion  is  ever  proportional  to  the  motive  force  imp  reus
ed  ;  and  is  made  in  the  direction  of  the  right  line  in.  which  that  force
is  impressed.
If  any  force  generates  a  motion,  a  double  force  will  generate  double  the
motion,  a  triple  force  triple  the  motion,  whether  that  force  be  impressed
altogether  and  at  once,  or  gradually  and  successively.  And  this  motion
(being  always  directed  the  same  way  with  the  generating  force),  if  the  body
moved  before,  is  added  to  or  subducted  from  the  former  motion,  according
as  they  directly  conspire  with  or  are  directly  contrary  to  each  other ;  or
obliquely  joined,  when  they  are  oblique,  so  as  to  produce  a  new  motion
compounded  from  the  determination  of  both.
LAW  III.
To  every  action  there  is  always  opposed  an  equal  reaction  :  or  the  mu
tual  actions  of  two  bodies  upon  each  other  are  always  equal,  and  di
rected  to  contrary  parts.
Whatever  draws  or  presses  another  is  as  much  drawn  or  pressed  by  that
other.  If  you  press  a  stone  with  your  finger,  the  finger  is  also  pressed  by
the  stone.  If  a  horse  draws  a  stone  tied  to  a  rope,  the  horse  (if  I  may  so
say)  will  be  equally  drawn  back  towards  the  stone:  for  the  distended  rope,
by  the  same  endeavour  to  relax  or  unbend  itself,  will  draw  the  horse  as
much  towards  the  stone,  as  it  does  the  stone  towards  the  horse,  and  will
obstruct  the  progress  of  the  one  as  much  as  it  advances  that  of  the  other.
84   THE    MATHEMATICAL    PRINCIPLES
If  a  body  impinge  upon  another,  and  by  its  force  change  the  motion  of  (It*
other,  that  body  also  (because  of  the  equality  of  the  mutual  pressure)  will
undergo  an  equal  change,  in  its  own  motion,  towards  the  contrary  part.
The  changes  made  by  these  actions  are  equal,  not  in  the  velocities  but  in
the  motions  of  bodies ;  that  is  to  say,  if  the  bodies  are  not  hindered  by  any
other  impediments.  For,  because  the  motions  are  equally  changed,  the
changes  of  the  velocities  made  towards  contrary  parts  are  reciprocally  pro
portional  to  the  bodies.  This  law  takes  place  also  in  attractions,  as  will
be  proved  in  the  next  scholium.
COROLLARY  I.
A  body  by  two  forces  conjoined  will  describe  the  diagonal  of  a  parallelo
gram,  in  the  same  time  that  it  wovld  describe  the  sides,  by  those  forces
apart.
If  a  body  in  a  given  time,  by  the  force  M  impressed
apart  in  the  place  A,  should  with  an  uniform  motion        /
be  carried  from  A  to  B ;  and  by  the  force  N  impressed
apart  in  the  same  place,  should  be  carried  from  A  to  c  ~\)
C  ;  complete  the  parallelogram  ABCD,  and,  by  both  forces  acting  together,
it  will  in  the  same  time  be  carried  in  the  diagonal  from  A  to  D.     For
since  the  force  N  acts  in  the  direction  of  the  line  AC,  parallel  to  BD,  this
force  (by  the  second  law)  will  not  at  all  alter  the  velocity  generated  by  the
other  force  M,  by  which  the  body  is 

---

mediums,  ...                     24J5
"      a  certain  reflection  it  sometimes  suffers  explained*,      245
"      its  refraction  explained,      243
u      refraction  is  not  made  in  the  single  point  of  incidence,      247    „    .
"      an  incurvation  of  light  about  the  extremities  of  bodies  observed  by  experiments,     .        .  24fc
"      not  caused  by  the  agitation  of  any  ethereal  medium,                   368
»A«NETIC  force,         94,304,397,454
37
578  INDEX    TO    THE   PRINCIPIA.
WARS,  its  periodic  time,      3^
"      its  distance  from  the  sun,      <    339
"      the  motion  of  its  aphelion,      4^/5
MATTER,  its  quantity  of  matter  defined,      ..."          73
"         its  msinsita  define!.      .   74
"        its  impressed  force  defined,      74
its  extension,  hardness,  impenetrability,  mobility,  rta  inertia:,  gravity,  how  discovered,    385
subtle  mattir  of  Descartes  ii  quired  into,     320
MECHANICAL  POWERS  explained  and  demonstrated,     94
MERCURY,  its  periodic  time,         ...........   .    388
its  distance  from  the  sun,         •         ••••••••.,         389
the  ruotion  of  its  aphelion,  .         •        ••••.•••..     405
METHOD  of  first  and  last  ratios,      95
"        of  transforming  figures  into  others  of  the  same  analytical  order,        ....         141
"        of  fluxions,    ...............     261
'•         differential,         •••...........         447
of  finding  the  quadratures  of  all  curves  very  nearly  true,      ......     448
"        ot  converging  series  applied  to  the  solution  of  difficult  problems,        .        .        .        271  430
MOON,  the  inclination  of  its  orbit  to  the  ecliptic  greatest  in  the  syzygies  of  the  node  with  the  ^un,
and  least  in  the  quadratures,      208
"      the  figure  of  its  body  collected  by  calculation,     45.)
"       its  librations  explained,       •         •.....•.....      405
its  mean  apparent  diameter,  .       ...        453
"      its  true  diameter,     453
"      weight  of  bodies  on  its  surface,     453
"       its  density,    453
"      its  quantity  of  matter,     453
"      its  mean  distance  from  the  earth,  how  many  greatest  sem>diameters  of  the  earth  con
tained  therein,     453
"      how  many  mean  semi-diameter?,     454
"      its  force  to  move  the  sea  how  great,     449
not  perceptible  in  experiments  of  pendulums,  or  any  statical  or  hydrostatical  observations,    452
"      its  periodic  time,        454
"      the  time  of  its  synodical  revolution,     422
tt      its  motions,  and  the  inequalities  of  the  same  derived  from  their  causes,     .   .     413, 144
"      revolves  more  slowly,  in  a  dilated  orbit,  when  the  earth  is  in  its  perihelion  ;  and  more
swiftly  in  the  aphelion  the  f-ame,  its  orbit  being  contracted,        ....     413,  444,  445
"      revolves  more  slowly,  in  a  dilated  orbit,  when  tl.e  apogteon  is  in  the  syzygies  with  the  sun  ;
and  more  swiftly,  in  a  contracted  orbit,  when  the  apogaeon  is  in  the  quadratures,        .        445
"       revolves  more  slowly,  in  a  dilated  orbit,  when  the  node  is  in  the  syzygies  with  the  sun  ;
and  more  swiftly,  in  a  contracted  orbit,  when  the  node  is  in  the  quadratures,  .        .    44G
"       moves  slower  in  its  quadratures  with  the  sun,  swifter  in  the  syzygies;  and  by  a  radius
drawn  to  the  earth  describes  an  area,  in  the  fir.<t  case  less  in  proportion  to  the  time,  in  the
last  case  greater,      ...        413
"      the  inequality  of  those  areas  computed,     ....      420
"      its  orbit  is  more  curve,  and  goes  farther  from  the  earth  in  the  first  case;  in  the  last  case
its  orbit  i?  less  curve,  and  comes  nearer  to  the  earth,     415
u      the  figure  of  this  orbit,  and  the  proportion  of  its  diameters  collected  by  computation,        .    423
"      a  method  of  finding  the  moon's  distance  from  the  earth  by  its  horary  motion,        .        .       423
"      its  apogaenn  moves  more  slowly  when  the  earth  is  in  its  aphelion,  m<  re  swiftly  in  the  peri
helion,           414,445
"      its  apogaeon  goes  forward  most  swiftly  when  in  the  syzygies  with  the  sun  ;  and  goes  back
ward  in  the  quadratures,     414, 44l:
"      its  eccentricity  greatest  when  the  apogaeon  is  in  the  syzygies  with  the  sun  ;  least  when  the
same  is  in  the  quadratures,        414,  44C
*  its  nodes  move  more  slowly  when  the  earth  is  in  its  aphelion,  and  more  swiftly  in  the  peri
helion,        414,445
*  its  nodes  are  at  rest  in  their  syzygies  with  the  sun,  and  go  back  most  swiftly  in  the  quad
ratures  ...   .   .        .   ....     41-1
INDEX    TO    THE    PRINCIPIA.   579
MOON,  the  motions  of  the  nodes  and  the  inequalities  of  its  motions  computed  from  the  theory  of
gravity,     427,430,434,436
"      the  same  from  a  different  principle,     437
«      the  variations  of  the  inclination  computed  from  the  theory  of  gravity,      .        .        .    441,  443
"      the  equ£.ti3ns  of  the  moon's  motions  for  astronomical  uses,    ••••••         445
"      the  unnual  equation  of  the  moon's  mean  motion,     445
"      the  first  semi-annual  equation  of  the  same,   •   ...        443
"      the  second  serai-annual  equation  of  the  same,     447
"      the  first  equation  of  the  moon's  centre,     447
"      the  second  equation  of  the  moon's  centre,    448
MOON'S  first  variation,     425
"      the  annual  equation  of  the  mean  motion  of  its  apogee,     445
"       the  semi-annual  equation  of  the  same,     447
"       the  semi-annual  equation  of  its  eccentricity,     447
"      the  annual  equation  of  the  mean  motion  of  its  nodes,    445
"       the  seini-annual  equation  of  the  same,      ..........     437
"      the  seini-anuual  equation  of  the  inclination  of  the  orbit  to  the  ecliptic,        .        .        .        444
"       the  method  of  fixing  the  theory  of  the  lunar  motions  from  observations,        ...     464
MOTION,  its  quantity  defined,      73
«       absolute  and  relative,     78
"       absolute  and  relative,  the  separation  of  one  from  the  other  possible,  demonstrated  by
an  example          ...*             82
"       laws  thereof;     83
".       of  concurring  bodies  after  their  .reflection,  by  what  experiments  collected,      ...      91
"       of  bodies  in  eccentric  sections,        .        .      116
"       in  moveub!e  orbits,    172
"       in  given  superficies,  and  of  the  reciprocal  motion  of  pendulums,        ....         183
"       of  bodies  tending  to  each  other  with  centripetal  forces,     194
"       of  very  small  bodies  agitated  by  centripetal  forces  tending  to  each  part  of  some  very
great  body,    233
"       of  bodies  resisted  in  the  ratio  of  the  velocities,     251
"       in  the  duplicate  ratio  of  the  velocity,     258
"       partly  in  the  simple  and  partly  in  the  duplicate  ratio  of  the  same,         .   280
"       of  bodies  proceeding  by  their  vis  insita  alone  in  resisting  mediums,  251, 258, 259,  280,  281,  330
"       of  bodies  ascending  or  descending  in  right  lines  in  resisting  mediums,  and  acted  on  by
an  uniform  force  of  gravity,     252,265,281,283
"       of  bodies  projected  in  resisting  mediums,  and  acted  on  by  an  uniform  force  of  gravity,  255,  268
u       of  bodies  revolving  in  resisting  mediums,     287
"       of  funependulous  bodies  in  resisting  mediums,  .      304
"       and  resistance  of  fluids,            323
41       propagated  through  fluids,       ...   .   .....     356
"       of  fluids  after  the  manner  of  a  vortex,  or  circular,     370
MOTIONS,  composition  and  resolution  of  them,  ..........           84
OVALS  for  optic  uses,  the  method  of  finding  them  which  Cartesius  concealed,      ....     246
"      a  general  solution  of  Cartesius's  problem,     247,  248
OBBITS,  the  invention  of  those  which  are  described  by  bodies  going  off  from  a  given  place  with
a  given  velocity  according  to  a  given  right  line,  when  the  centripetal  force  is  recipro
cally  as  the  square  of  the  distance,  and  the  absolute  quantity  of  that  force  is  known,    .    123
"       of  those  which  are  described  by  bodies  when  the  centripetal  force  is  reciprocally  as  the
cube  of  the  distance,     114, 171, 176
"       of  those  which  are  described  by  bodies  agitated  by  any  centripetal  forces  whatever,    168
PARABOLA.,  by  what  law  of  centripetal  force  tending  to  the  focus  of  the  figure  the  same  may  be
described,     120
PENDULUMS,  their  properties  explained,     186, 190,  304
the  diverse  length?  of  isochronous  pendulums  in  different  latitudes  compared  among
themselves,  both  by  observations  and  by  the  theory  of  gravity,        .        .        409  to  413
PLACE  defined,  and  distinguished  into  absolute  and  relative,      .78
PLACES  of  bodies  moving  in  conic  sections  found  to  any  assigned  time,       .....     153
not  carried  about  by  corporeal  vortices,    .........         378
'">$()   INDEX    TO    THE    PRINCIPIA.
PLANET*,  their  peri.. diet  .imes,      .   .        3gg
"         their  distances  from  the  tun,      .   .     339
*        the  at.helia  and  nodes  of  their  orbits  do  almost  rest,        ......         405
"        their  orbits  determined,     406
"        the  way  of  finding  their  places  in  their  orbit?,     347  to  350
"        their  density  suited  to  the  heat  they  receive  from  the  sun,    ...*..     400
"        their  diurnal  revolutions  equable.     406
"        their  axes  less  than  the  diameters  that  stand  upon  them  at  right  angles,    .        .        .    406
PLANETS,  PRIMARY,  surround  the  sun,     387
"   move  in  ellipses  whose  focus  is  in  the  sun's  centre    403
by  radii  drawn  to  the  sun  describe  areas  proportional  to  the  times,   .    388,  403
revolve  in  periodic  times  that  are  in  the  sesquiplicate  proportion  of  the  dis
tances  from  the  sun,     387
are  retained  in  their  orbits  by  a  force  of  gravity  which  respects  the  sun,
and  is  reciprocally  as  the  square  of  the  distance  from  the  sun's  centre,    389,  393
PLANETS,  SECONDARY,  move  in  ellipses  having  their  focus  in  the  centre  of  the  primary,        .        413
by  radii  drawn  to  their  primary  describe  areas  proportional  to  the
times    386,387,390
revolve  in  periodic  times  that  are  in  the  sesquiplicate  proportion  of  their
distances  from  the  primary,     386,  387
PROBLEM  KEPLEHIAN,  solved  by  the  trochoid  and  by  approximations,   ....      157  to  160
of  the  ancients,  of  four  lines,  related  by  Pappus,  and  attempted  by  Car-
tesius,  by  an  algebraic  calculus  solved  by  a  geometrical  composition,     .     135
PROJECTILES  move  in  parabolas  when  the  resistance  of  the  medium  is  taken  away,   91, 115,  243,  273
their  motions  in  re.-isting  mediums,      ........         255,  268
PULSES  of  the  air,  by  which  sounds  are  propagated,  their  intervals  or  breadths  determined,    368,  370
"       these  intervals  in  sounds  made  by  open  pipes  probably  equal  to  twice  the  length  of  the
pipes,     370
QUADRATURES  general  of  oval  figures  not  to  be  obtained  by  finite  terms,     153
QUALITIES  of  bodies  how  discovered,  and  when  to  be  supposed  universal,        ....         38-1
RESISTANCE,  the  quantity  thereof  in  mediums  not  continued,     329
"   in  continued  mediums,     40f
in  mediums  of  any  kind  whatever,        •         .         .        .        .         .        .        .        .     3.i.
of  mediums  is  as  their  density,  cceteris  paribus,        .        .     320,  321,  324,  329,  344.  353
is  in  the  duplicate  proportion  of  the  velocity  of  the  bodies  resisted,  ccrteris  j.ari-
bus,     258,  314, 374,  329,  3J4,  35  i
Ct   is  in  the  duplicate  proportion  of  the  diameters  of  spherical  bodies  resisted,  cceteris
paribus    317,  31 8,  329,  34-1
"            of  fluids  threefold,  arises  either  from  the  inactivity  of  the  fluid  matter,  or  the  te
nacity  of  its  parts,  or  friction,     286
«   the  resistance  found  in  fluids,  almost  all  of  the  first  kind,        ....      321,  35*
"   cannot  be  diminished  by  the  subtilty  of  the  parts  of  the  fluid,  if  the  density  remain,    355
"   of  a  globe,  what  proportion  it  bears  to  that  of  a  cylinder,  in  mediums  not  continued,    327
"   in  compressed  mediums,     343
"   of  a  globe  in  mediums  not  continued,     329
"   in  compressed  mediums,     344
"   how  found  by  experiments,     345  to  355
"   to  a  frustum  oi  a  cone,  how  made  the  least  possible,     328
"   what  kind  of  solid  it  is  that  meets  with  the  least,     329
RESISTANCES,  the  theory  thereof  confirmed  by  experiments  of  pendulums,      .        .        .      313  to  321
"   by  experiments  of  fa-lling  bodies,    345  to  356
REST,  true  and  relative,      78
RULES  of  philosophy,     38-!
SATELLITES,  the  greatest  heliocentric  elongation  of  Jupiter's  satellites,     387
"   the  greatest  heliocentric  elongation  of  the  Huygenian  satellite  from  Saturn's  centre.  398
the  periodic  times  of  Jupiter's  satellites,  and  their  distances  from  his  centre,    .    386,  387
"   the  periodic  times  of  Saturn's  satellites,  and  their  distances  from  his  centre,         387,  388
"   the  inequalities  of  the  motions  of  the  satellites  of  Jupiter  and  Saturn  derived  from
the  motions  of  the  moon,     413
SM^UIPLICATE  proportion  defined,      101
INDEX    TO    THE    PRINCIPLE.
SATURN,  its  periodic  time,                            .   388
"        its  distance  from  the  sun,                        388
"       its  apparent  diameter,        ..*•••••••••   388
"        its  true  diameter,            .        .        .        .  399
"       its  attractive  force,  how  great,      398
"       the  weight  of  bodies  on  its  surface,      399
"        its  density,  ...                 .                                    .  399
"        its  quantity  of  matter,      399
"       its  perturbation  by  the  approach  of  Jupiter  how  great,      403
"        the  apparent  diameter  of  its  ring,    .        .        .  388
SHADOW  of  the  earth  to  be  augmented  in  lunar  eclipses,  because  of  the  refraction  of  the  at
mosphere,       44?
SUUNDS,  their  nature  explained,     360,363,365,366,367,368,369
'(        not  propagated  in  directum,                     .                 ...   359
"         caused  by  the  agitation  of  the  air,      368
"         their  velocity  c<  mputed,     368,  369
"        somewhat  swifter  by  the  theory  in  summer  than  m  winter,      370
"        cease  immediately,  when  the  motion  of  the  sonorous  body  ceases,       ....   365
"         how  augmented  in  speaking  trumpets,      370
Sf  ACE,  absolute  and  relative,    78,  79
"       not  equally  full.      396
SPHEROID,  the  attraction  of  the  same  when  the  forces  of  its  particles  are  reciprocally  as  the
squares  of  the  distances     239
SPIRAL  cutting  all  its  radii  in  a  given  angle,  by  what  law  of  centripetal  force  tending  to  the
centre  thereof  it  may  be  described  by  a  revolving  body,         ....         107,  287,  291
SPIRIT  pervading  all  bodies,  and  concealed  within  them,  hinted  at,  as  required  to  solve  a  great
many  phsenomena  of  Nature,      508
STARS,  the  fixed  , -tars  demonstrated  to  be  at  rest,        ...                     404
"       their  twinkling  what  to  be  ascribed  to, .                     487
"      new  stars,  whence  they  may  arise,      502
SUBSTANCES  of  all  things  unknown,      507
SUN,  m  >ves  round  the  common  centre  of  gravity  of  all  the  planets,      401
"     the  periodic  time  of'  its  revolution  about  its  axis     405
"     its  mean  apparent  diameter,     ....*..   453
"     its  true  diameter,      398
"    its  horizontal  parallax,      398
"    has  a  menstrual  parallax,      403
"     its  attractive  force  how  great,      ............   398
"     the  weight  <.f  bodies  on  its  surface,                399
"     its  density,                             .  399
"     its  quantity  of  matter,      399
"     its  force  to  disturb  the  motions  of  the  moon,     391,  419
"     its  force  to  move  the  sea,      448
TIDES  of  the  sea  derived  from  their  cause,     415,  448,  449
TIMF,  absolute  and  relative,    78,  79
"     tli?  astronomical  equation  thereof  proved  by  pendulum  clocks,  and  the  eclipses  of  Jupiter's
satellites,      79
A  VACUUM  proved,  or  that  all  spaces  (if  said  to  be  full)  are  not  equally  full,     ....   396
VELOCITIES  of  bodies  moving  in  conic  sections,  whore  the  centripetal  force  tends  to  the  focus,    .  121
VELOCITY,  the  greatest  that  a  globe  falling  in  a  resisting  medium  can  acquire,        .        .        .  344
VENUS,  its  periodic  time,      388
"       its  distance  from  the  sun,      388
"       the  motion  of  its  aphelion,      405
VOHTICES,  their  nature  and  constitution  examined,     504
W.AVES,  the  velocity  with  which  they  are  propagated  on  the  superficies  of  stagnant  water,        .  361
WEIGHTS  of  bodies  towards  the  sun,  the  earth,  or  any  planet,  are,  at  equal  distances  from  the
centre,  as  the  quantities  of  matter  in  the  bodies,      394
1        they  do  not  depend  upon  the  forms  and  textures  of  bodies     395
"        of  bodies  in  different  regions  of  the  earth  found  out,  and  compared  together,   .        .  409
NON-CIRCULAT1NQ
RETURN      Astronomy/Mathematics/Statistics  Library
100  Evans  Hall   642-3381
LOAN  PERIOD  1
7  DAYS
2                               3
4  5                              6
DUE  AS  STAMPED  BELOW
M&gSgQZ,
OCTO^  1993
tm    -i  ^   mni rLU  1  6  1999
FORM  NO.  DD3  UNIVERSITY  OF  CALIFORNIA,  BERKELEY
BERKELEY,  CA  94720
HHfVf&f*
U.C.  BERKELEY  LIBRARIES

---

  2,  Pro])
LVIII,  compared  with  what  was  demonstrated  in  Prop.  LX1V,  and  LXY
Now  this  accurate  elliptical  motion  will  be  disturbed  a  little  by  the  dis
tance  of  the  centre  of  the  two  bodies  from  the  centre  towards  which  tht
third  body  S  is  attracted.  Let  there  be  added,  moreover,  a  motion  to  the
Bommon  centre  of  the  three,  and  the  perturbation  will  be  increased  yet
more.  Therefore  the  perturbation  is  least  when  the
common  centre  of  the  three  bodies  is  at  rest;  that
I  is,  when  the  innermost  and  greatest  body  T  is  at
tracted  according  to  the  same  law  as  the  rest  are ;
and  is  always  greatest  when  the  common  centre  of
the  three,  by  the  diminution  of  the  motion  of  the  body  T,  begins  to  be
moved,  and  is  more  and  more  agitated.
COR.  And  hence  if  more  lesser  bodies  revolve  about  the  great  one,  it
may  easily  be  inferred  that  the  orbits  described  will  approach  nearer  to
ellipses ;  and  the  descriptions  of  areas  will  be  more  nearly  equable,  if  all
the  bodies  mutually  attract  and  agitate  each  other  with  accelerative  forces
that  are  as  their  absolute  forces  directly,  and  the  squares  of  the  distances
inversely  :  and  if  the  focus  of  each  orbit  be  placed  in  the  common  centre
of  gravity  of  all  the  interior  bodies  (that  is.  if  the  focus  of  the  first  and  in
nermost  orbit  be  placed  in  the  centre  of  gravity  of  the  greatest  and  inner
most  body  :  the  focus  of  the  second  orbit  in  the  common  centre  of  gravity
of  the  two  innermost  bodies;  the  focus  of  the  third  orbit  in  the  common
centre  of  gravity  of  the  three  innermost  ;  and  so  on),  than  if  the  innermost
body  were  at  rest,  and  was  made  the  common  focus  of  all  the  orbits.
PROPOSITION  LXIX.     THEOREM  XXIX.
fn  a  system  of  several  bodies  A,  B,  C,  D,  $*c.,  if  any  one  of  those  bodies,
as  A,  attract  all  the  rest,  B,  C,  D,  $*c.,with  accelerative  forces  that  are
reciprocally  as  the  squares  of  the  distances  from  the  attracting  body  ;
and  another  body,  as  B,  attracts  also  the  rest.  A,  C,  D,  $-c.,  with  forces
that  are  reciprocally  as  the  squares  of  the  distances  from  the  attract
ing  body  ;  the  absolute  forces  of  the  attracting  bodies  A  and  B  will
be  to  each  other  as  those  very  bodies  A  and  B  to  which  those  forces
belong.
For  the  accelerative  attractions  of  all  the  bodies  B,  C,  D,  towards  A,
are  by  the  supposition  equal  to  each  other  at  equal  distances  ;  and  in  like
manner  the  accelerative  attractions  of  all  the  bodies  towards  B  are  also
equal  to  each  other  at  equal  distances.  But  the  absolute  attractive  force
of  the  body  A  is  to  the  absolute  attractive  force  of  the  body  B  as  the  ac-
eelerative  attraction  of  all  the  bodies  towards  A  to  the  accelerative  attrac
tion  of  all  the  bodies  towards  B  at  equal  distances  ;  and  so  is  also  the  ac
celerative  attraction  of  the  body  B  to*vards  A  to  the  accelerative  attraction
SEC.    XI]   OF    NATURAL    PHILOSOPHY.   21  T
of  the  body  A  towards  B.  But  the  accelerative  attraction  of  the  body  B
towards  A  is  to  the  accelerative  attraction  of  the  body  A  towards  B  as  the
mass  of  the  body  A  to  the  mass  of  the  body  B  ;  because  the  motive  forces
which  (by  the  2d,  7th,  and  8th  Definition)  are  as  the  accelerative  forces
and  the  bodies  attracted  conjunctly  are  here  equal  to  one  another  by  the
third  Law.  Therefore  the  absolute  attractive  force  of  the  body  A  is  to  the
absolute  attractive  force  of  the  body  B  aa  the  mass  of  the  body  A  to  the
mass  of  the  body  B.  Q.E.D.
COR.  1.  Therefore  if  each  of  the  bodies  of  the  system  A,  B,  C,  D,  &c.
does  singly  attract  all  the  rest  with  accelerative  forces  that  are  reciprocally
as  the  squares  of  the  distances  from  the  attracting  body,  the  absolute  forces
of  all  those  bodies  will  be  to  each  other  as  the  bodies  themselves.
COR.  2.  By  a  like  reasoning,  if  each  of  the  bodies  of  the  system  A,  B,
C,  D,  &c.,  do  singly  attract  all  the  rest  with  accelerative  forces,  which  are
either  reciprocally  or  directly  in  the  ratio  of  any  power  whatever  of  the
distances  from  the  attracting  body :  or  which  are  defined  by  the  distances
from  each  of  the  attracting  bodies  according  to  any  common  law  :  it  is  plain
that  the  absolute  forces  of  those  bodies  are  as  the  bodies  themselves.
COR.  3.  In  a  system  of  bodies  whose  forces  decrease  in  the  duplicate  ra
tio  of  the  distances,  if  the  lesser  revolve  about  one  very  great  one  in  ellip
ses,  having  their  common  focus  in  the  centre  of  that  great  body,  and  of  a
figure  exceedingly  accurate  ;  and  moreover  by  radii  drawn  to  that  great
ody  describe  areas  proportional  to  the  times  exactly  •  the  absolute  forces
)i  those  bodies  to  each  other  will  be  either  accurately  or  very  nearly  in  the
ratio  of  the  bodies.  And  s  >  on  the  contrary.  This  appears  from  Cor.  of
Prop.  XLVII1, compared  with  the  first  Corollary  of  this  Prop.
SCHOLIUM.
These  Propositions  naturally  lead  us  to  the  analogy  there  is  between
centripetal  forces,  and  the  central  bodies  to  which  those  forces  used  to  be
directed  ;  for  it  is  reasonable  to  suppose  that  forces  which  are  directed  to
bodies  should  depend  upon  the  nature  and  quantity  of  those  bodies,  as  we
see  they  do  in  magnetical  experiments.  And  when  such  cases  occur,  we
are  to  compute  the  attractions  of  the  bodies  by  assigning  to  each  of  their
particles  its  proper  force,  and  then  collecting  the  sum  of  them  all.  I  here
ue*e  the  word  attraction  in  general  for  any  endeavour,  of  what  kind  soever,
made  by  bodies  to  approach  to  each  other;  whether  that  endeavour  arise
from  the  action  of  the  bodies  themselves,  as  tending  mutually  to  or  agita
ting  each  other  by  spirits  emitted;  or  whether  it  arises  from  the  action
of  the  aether  or  of  the  air,  or  of  any  medium  whatsoever*  whether  corporeal
or  incorporeal,  any  how  impelling  bodies  placed  therein  towards  each  other.
In  the  same  general  sense  I  use  the  word  impulse,  not  defining  in  this  trea
tise  the  species  or  physical  qualities  of  forces,  but  investigating  the  quantities
THE    MATHEMATICAL    PRINCIPLES   [BOOK    ).
and  mathematical  proportions  of  them  ;  as  I  observed  before  ir  (lie  Defi
nitions.  In  mathematics  we  are  to  investigate  the  quantities  of  forces
with  their  proportions  consequent  upon  any  conditions  supposed  ;  then,
when  we  enter  upon  physics,  we  compare  those  proportions  with  the  phe
nomena  of  Nature,  that  we  may  know  what  conditions  of  those  forces  an
swer  to  the  several  kinds  of  attractive  bodies.  And  this  preparation  being
made,  we  argue  more  safely  concerning  the  physical  species,  causes,  and
proportions  of  the  forces.  Let  us  see,  then,  with  what  forces  spherical
bodies  consisting  of  particles  endued  with  attractive  powers  in  the  manner
above  spoken  of  must  act  mutually  upon  one  another  :  and  what  kind  of
motions  will  follow  from  thence.
SECTION  XII.
Of  the  attractive  forces  of  sphcerical  bodies.
PROPOSITION  LXX.     THEOREM  XXX.
If  to  every  point  of  a  spherical  surface  there  tend  equal  centripetal  forces
decreasing  in,  the  duplicate  ratio  of  the  distances  from  those  points  ;
I  say,  that  a  corpuscle  placed  within  that  superficies  will  not  be  attract
ed  by  those  forces  any  way.
Let  HIKL,  be  that  sphaerical  superficies,  and  P  a
corpuscle  placed  within.  Through  P  let  there  be
drawn  to  this  superficies  to  two  lines  HK,  IL,  inter-
cepting  very  small  arcs  HI,  KL  ;  and  because  (by
Cor.  3,  Lem.  VII)  the  triangles  HPI,LPK  are  alike,
those  arcs  will  be  proportional  to  the  distances  HP
LP  ;  and  any  particles  at  HI  and  KL  of  the  spheri
cal  superficies,  terminated  by  right  lines  passing  through  P,  will  be  in  the
duplicate  ratio  of  those  distances.  Therefore  the  forces  of  these  particles
exerted  upon  the  body  P  are  equal  between  themselves.  For  the  forces  are
as  the  particles  directly,  and  the  squares  of  the  distances  inversely.  And
these  two  ratios  compose  the  ratio  of  equality.  The  attractions  therefore,
being  made  equally  towards  contrary  parts,  destroy  each  other.  And  by  a
like  reasoning  all  the  attractions  through  the  whole  spherical  superficies
are  destroyed  by  contrary  attractions.  Therefore  the  body  P  will  not  be
any  way  impelled  by  those  attractions.  Q.E.D.
PROPOSITION  LXXI.     THEOREM  XXXI.
The  same  things  supposed  as  above,  I  say,  that  a  cor pu  vie  placed  with
out  the  sph(eric»l  superficies  is  attracted  towards  the  centre  of  tht
sphere  wiih  a  force  reciprocally  proportional  to  the  square  of  its  dis
tance  from  that  centre.
Let  AHKB,  ahkb,  be  two  equal  sphaerical  superficies  described  about
SEC.    XII.J   OF    NATURAL    PHILOSOPHY.
the  centre  S,  s  ;  their  diameters  AB,  ab  ;  and  let  P  and  p  be  two  corpus
cles  situate  without  the  gpheres  in  those  diameters  produced.     Let   there
be  drawn  from  the  corpuscles  the  lines  PHK,  PIL,  phk,  pil,  cutting  off
from  the  great  circles  AHB,  ahb,  the  equal  arcs  HK,  hk,  IL;  il ;  and  to
those  lines  let  fall  the  perpendiculars  SD,  sd,  SE,  SP,  1R,  ir  ;  of  which  let
SD,  sd,  cut  PL,  pi,  in  F  and  f.  Let  fall  also  to  the  diameters  the  perpen
diculars  IQ,  iq.  Let  now  the  angles  DPE,  dpe,  vanish;  and  because  DS
and  ds,  ES  and  es  are  equal,  the  lines  PE,  PP,  and  pe,  pf,  and  the  lineolso
I  )F,  df  may  be  taken  for  equal ;  because  their  last  ratio,  when  the  angles
DPE,  dpe  vanish  together,  is  the  ratio  of  equality.  These  things  then
supposed,  it  will  be,  as  PI  to  PF  so  is  RI  to  DF,  and  as  pf  to  pi  so  is  df  or
DF  to  ri  ;  and,  ex  cequo,  as  PI  X  pf  to  PF  X  pi  so  is  R I  to  ri,  that  is
(by  Cor.  3,  Lem  VII),  so  is  the  arc  IH  to  the  arc  ih.  Again,  PI  is  to  PS
as  IQ.  to  SE,  and  ps  to  pi  as  se  or  SE  to  iq  ;  and,  ex  ceqno,  PI  X  ps  to
PS  X  pi  as  IQ.  to  iq.  And  compounding  the  ratios  PI2  X  pf  X  ps  is  to
pi2  X  PF  X  PS,  as  IH  X  IQ  to  ih  X  iq  ;  that  is,  as  the  circular  super
ficies  which  is  described  by  the  arc  IH,  as  the  semi-circle  AKB  revolves
about  the  diameter  AB,  is  to  the  circular  superficies  described  by  the  arc  ih
as  the  semi-circle  akb  revolves  about  the  diameter  ab.  And  the  forces
with  which  these  superficies  attract  the  corpuscles  P  and  p  in  the  direction
of  lines  tending  to  those  superficies  are  by  the  hypothesis  as  the  superficies
themselves  directly,  and  the  squares  of  the  distances  of  the  superficies  from
those  corpuscles  inversely;  that  is,  as  pf  X  ps  to  PF  XPS.  And  these
forces  again  are  to  the  oblique  parts  of  them  which  (by  the  resolution  of
forces  as  in  Cor.  2,  of  the  Laws)  tend  to  the  centres  in  the  directions  of  the
lines  PS,  JDS-,  as  PI  to  PQ,  and  pi  to  pq  ;  that  is  (because  of  the  like  trian
gles  PIQ  and  PSF,  piq  and  psf\  as  PS  to  PF  and  ps  to  pf.  Thence  ex
cequO)  the  attraction  of  the  corpuscle  P  towards  S  is  to  the  attraction  of
PF  XpfXps.        pf  X  PF  X  PS    .
the  corpusclejo  towards  5  as     ~    =—  is  to    — ,  that  is,
as  ps2  to  PS2.  And,  by  a  like  reasoning,  the  forces  with  which  the  su
perficies  described  by  the  revolution  of  the  arcs  KL,  kl  attract  those  cor
puscles,  will  be  as  jDS2  to  PS2.  And  in  the  same  ratio  will  be  the  foroes
of  all  the  circular  superficies  into  which  each  of  the  sphaerical  superficies
may  be  divided  by  taking  sd  always  equal  to  SD,  and  se  equal  to  SE.  And
therefore,  by  composition,  the  forces  of  the  entire  spherical  superficies  ex
erted  upon  those  corpuscles  will  be  in  the  same  ratio.  Q.E.D
220   THE    MATHEMATICAL    PRINCIPLES   [BOOK    1
PROPOSITION  LXXIL     THEOREM  XXXII.
If  to  the  several  points  of  a  sphere  there  tend  equal  centripetal  forces  de
creasing  in  a  duplicate  ratio  of  the  distances  from  those  points  ;  and
there  be  given  both  the  density  of  the  sphere  and  the  ratio  of  the  di
ameter  of  the  sphere  to  the  distance  of  the  corpuscle  from  its  centre  ;
I  say,  that  the  force  with  which  the  corpuscle  is  attracted  is  propor
tional  to  the  semi-diameter  of  the  sphere.
For  conceive  two  corpuscles  to  be  severally  attracted  by  two  spheres,  one
by  one,  the  other  by  the  other,  and  their  distances  from  the  centres  of  the
spheres  to  be  proportional  to  the  diameters  of  the  spheres  respectively  ,  and
the  spheres  to  be  resolved  into  like  particles,  disposed  in  a  like  situation
to  the  corpuscles.  Then  the  attractions  of  one  corpuscle  towards  the  sev
eral  particles  of  one  sphere  will  be  to  the  attractions  of  the  other  towards
as  many  analogous  particles  of  the  other  sphere  in  a  ratio  compounded  of
the  ratio  of  the  particles  directly,  and  the  duplicate  ratio  of  the  distances
inversely.  But  the  particles  are  as  the  spheres,  that  is,  in  a  triplicate  ra
tio  of  the  diameters,  and  the  distances  are  as  the  diameters  ;  and  the  first
ratio  directly  with  the  last  ratio  taken  twice  inversely,  becomes  the  ratio
of  diameter  to  diameter.  Q.E.D.
COR.  1.  Hence  if  corpuscles  revolve  in  circles  about  spheres  composed
of  matter  equally  attracting,  and  the  distances  from  the  centres  of  the
spheres  be  proportional  to  their  diameters,  the  periodic  times  will  be  equal.
COR.  2.  And,  vice  versa,  if  the  periodic  times  are  equal,  the  distances
will  be  proportional  to  the  diameters.  These  two  Corollaries  appear  from
Cor.  3,  Prop.  IV.
COR.  3.  If  to  the  several  points  of  an^  two  solids  whatever,  of  like  fig-
are  and  equal  density,  there  tend  equal  centripetal  forces  decreasing  in  a
duplicate  ratio  of  the  distances  from  those  points,  the  forces,  with  which
corpuscles  placed  in  a  like  situation  to  those  two  solids  will  be  attracted
by  them,  will  be  to  each  other  as  the  diameters  of  the  solids.
PROPOSITION  LXXIII.     THEOREM  XXXIII.
If  to  the  several  points  of  a  given  sphere  there  tend  equal  centripetal  forces
decreasing  in  a  duplicate  ratio  of  the  distances  from  the  points  ;  1
say,  that  a  corpuscle  placed  within  the  sphere  is  attracted  by  a  force
proportional  to  its  distance  from  the  centre.
In  the  sphere  ABCD,  described  about  the  centre  S,
let  there  be  placed  the  corpuscle  P ;  and  about  the
same  centre  S,  with  the  interval  SP?  conceive  de-
|B  scribed  an  interior  sphere  PEQP.  It  is  plain  (by
Prop.  LXX)  that  the  concentric  sphaerical  superficies,
of  which  the  difference  AEBF  of  the  spheres  is  com
posed,  have  no  effect  at  all  upon  the  body  P,  their  at-
SEC.    XIL]   OF    NATURAL    PHILOSOPHY.   22\
tractions  being  destroyed  by  contrary  attractions.  There  remains,  there
fore;  only  the  attraction  of  the  interior  sphere  PEQ,F.  And  (by  Prop.
LXXII)  this  is  as  the  distance  PS.  Q.E.D.
SCHOLIUM.
By  the  superficies  of  which  I  here  imagine  the  solids  composed,  I  do  not
mean  superficies  purely  mathematical,  but  orbs  so  extremely  thin,  that
their  thickness  is  as  nothing;  that  is,  the  evanescent  orbs  of  which  the  sphere
will  at  last  consist  when  the  number  of  the  orbs  is  increased,  and  their
thickness  diminished  without  end.  In  like  manner,  by  the  points  of  which
lines,  surfaces,  and  solids  are  said  to  be  composed,  are  to  be  understood
equal  particles,  whose  magnitude  is  perfectly  inconsiderable.
PROPOSITION  LXXIV.     THEOREM  XXXIV.
The  same  things  supposed,  I  say,  that  a  corpuscle  situate  without  the
sphere  is  attracted  with  a  force  reciprocally  proportional  to  the  square
of  its  distance  from  the  centre.
For  suppose  the  sphere  to  be  divided  into  innumerable  concentric  sphe
rical  superficies,  and  the  attractions  of  the  corpuscle  arising  from  the  sev
eral  superficies  will  be  reciprocally  proportional  to  the  square  of  the  dis
tance  of  the  corpuscle  from  the  centre  of  the  sphere  (by  Prop.  LXXI).
And,  by  composition,  the  sum  of  those  attractions,  that  is,  the  attraction
of  the  corpuscle  towards  the  entire  sphere,  will  be  in  the  same  ratio.  Q.E.D.
COR.  1.  Hence  the  attractions  of  homogeneous  spheres  at  equal  distances
from  the  centres  will  be  as  the  spheres  themselves.  For  (by  Prop.  LXXII)
if  the  distances  be  proportional  to  the  diameters  of  the  spheres,  the  forces
will  be  as  the  diameters.  Let  the  greater  distance  be  diminished  in  that
ratio ;  and  the  distances  now  being  equal,  the  attraction  will  be  increased
in  the  duplicate  of  that  ratio  ;  and  therefore  will  be  to  the  other  attraction
in  the  triplicate  of  that  ratio  ;  that  is,  in  the  ratio  of  the  spheres.
COR.  2.  At  any  distances  whatever  the  attractions  are  as  the  spheres
applied  to  the  squares  of  the  distances.
COR.  3.  If  a  corpuscle  placed  without  an  homogeneous  sphere  is  attract
ed  by  a  force  reciprocally  proportional  to  the  square  of  its  distance  from
the  centre,  and  the  sphere  consists  of  attractive  particles,  the  force  of  ever y
particle  will  decrease  in  a  duplicate  ratio  of  the  distance  from  each  particle.
PROPOSITION  LXXV.     THEOREM  XXXV.
If  to  the  several  points  of  a  given  sphere  there  tend  equal  centripetal  forces
decreasing  in  a  duplicate  ratio  of  the  distances  from  the  points  ;  I  say,
that  another  similar  sphere  will  be  attracted  by  it  with  a  force  recip
rocally  proportional  to  the  square  of  the  distance  of  the  centres.
For  the  attraction  of  every  particle  is  reciprocally  as  the  square  of  its
222   THE    MATHEMATICAL    PRINCIPLES   |  BOOK    L
distance  from  the  centre  of  the  attracting  sphere  (by  Prop.  LXXIV).  and
is  therefore  the  same  as  if  that  whole  attracting  force  issued  from  one  sin
gle  corpuscle  placed  in  the  centre  of  this  sphere.  But  this  attraction  is  as
great  as  on  the  other  hand  the  attraction  of  the  same  corpuscle  would  be,
if  that  were  itself  attracted  by  the  several  particles  of  the  attracted  sphere
with  the  same  force  with  which  they  are  attracted  by  it.  But  that  attrac
tion  of  the  corpuscle  would  be  (by  Prop.  LXXIV)  reciprocally  propor
tional  to  the  square  of  its  distance  from  the  centre  of  the  sphere  :  therefore
the  attraction  of  the  sphere,  equal  thereto,  is  also  in  the  same  ratio.  Q,.E.D.
COR.  1.  The  attractions  of  spheres  towards  other  homogeneous  spheres
are  as  the  attracting  spheres  applied  to  the  squares  of  the  distances  of  their
centres  from  the  centres  of  those  which  they  attract.
COR.  2.  The  case  is  the  same  when  the  attracted  sphere  does  also  at
tract.  For  the  several  points  of  the  one  attract  the  several  points  of  the
other  with  the  same  force  with  which  they  themselves  are  attracted  by  the
others  again;  and  therefore  since  in  all  attractions  (by  Law  III)  the  at
tracted  and  attracting  point  are  both  equally  acted  on,  the  force  will  be
doubled  by  their  mutual  attractions,  the  proportions  remaining.
COR.  3.  Those  several  truths  demonstrated  above  concerning  the  motion
of  bodies  about  the  focus  of  the  conic  sections  will  take  place  when  an
attracting  sphere  is  placed  in  the  focus,  and  the  bodies  move  without  the
sphere.
COR.  4.  Those  things  which  were  demonstrated  before  of  the  motion  of
bodies  about  the  centre  of  the  conic  sections  take  place  when  the  motions
are  performed  within  the  sphere.
PROPOSITION  LXXVI.     THEOREM  XXXVI.
ff  spheres  be  however  dissimilar  (as  to  density  of  matter  and  attractive,
force]  in  the  same  ratio  onward  from  the  centre  to  the  circumference  ;
but  every  where  similar,  at  every  given  distance  from  the  centre,  on  all
sides  round  about  ;  and  the  attractive  force  of  every  point  decreases
in  the  duplicate  ratio  of  the  distance  of  the  body  attracted  ;  I  say,
that  the  whole  force  with  which  one  of  these  spheres  attracts  the  oilier
will  be  reciprocally  proportional  to  the  square  of  the  distance  of  the
centres.
Imagine  several  concentric  similar
spheres,  AB,  CD,  EF,  &c..  the  inner
most  of  which  added  to  the  outermost
may  compose  a  matter  more  dense  to
wards  the  centre,  or  subducted  from
them  may  leave  the  same  more  lax  and
rare.  Then,  by  Prop.  LXXV,  these
sphere?  will  attract  other  similar  con-
SEC.    XII.]   OF    NATURAL    PHILOSOPHY.   223
eentric  spheres  GH;  IK,  LM,  &c.,  each  the  other,  with  forces  reciprocally
proportional  to  the  square  of  the  distance  SP.  And,  by  composition  or
division,  the  sum  of  all  those  forces,  or  the  excess  of  any  of  them  above
the  others;  that  is,  the  entire  force  with  which  the  whole  sphere  AB  (com
posed  of  any  concentric  spheres  or  of  their  differences)  will  attract  the
whole  sphere  GH  (composed  of  any  concentric  spheres  or  their  differences)
in  the  same  ratio.  Let  the  number  of  the  concentric  spheres  be  increased
in  infinitum,  so  that  the  density  of  the  matter  together  with  the  attractive
force  may,  in  the  progress  from  the  circumference  to  the  centre,  increase  or
decrease  according  to  any  given  law  ;  and  by  the  addition  of  matter  not  at
tractive,  let  the  deficient  density  be  supplied,  that  so  the  spheres  may  acquire
any  form  desired  ;  and  the  force  with  which  one  of  these  attracts  the  other
will  be  still,  by  the  former  reasoning,  in  the  same  ratio  of  the  square  of  the
distance  inversely.  Q.E.I).
COR.  I.  Hence  if  many  spheres  of  this  kind,  similar  in  all  respects,  at
tract  each  other  mutually,  the  accelerative  attractions  of  each  to  each,  at
any  equal  distances  of  the  centre's,  will  be  as  the  attracting  spheres.
COR.  2.  And  at  any  unequal  distances,  as  the  attracting  spheres  applied
to  the  squares  of  the  distances  between  the  centres.
/'  COR.  3.  The  motive  attractions,  or  the  weights  of  the  spheres  towards
one  another,  will  be  at  equal  distances  of  the  centres  as  the  attracting  and
attracted  spheres  conjunctly  ;  that  is,  as  the  products  arising  from  multi
plying  the  spheres  into  each  other.
COR.  4.  And  at  unequal  distances,  as  those  products  directly,  and  the
squares  of  the  distances  between  the  centres  inversely.
COR.  5.  These  proportions  take  place  also  when  the  attraction  arises
from  the  attractive  virtue  of  both  spheres  mutually  exerted  upon  each
other.  For  the  attraction  is  only  doubled  by  the  conjunction  of  the  forces,
the  proportions  remaining  as  before.
COR.  6.  If  spheres  of  this  kind  revolve  about  others  at  rest,  each  about
each  ;  and  the  distances  between  the  centres  of  the  quiescent  and  revolving
bodies  are  proportional  to  the  diameters  of  the  quiescent  bodies  ;  the  peri
odic  times  will  be  equal.
COR.  7.  And,  again,  if  the  periodic  times  are  equal,  the  distances  will
be  proportional  to  the  diameters.
COR.  8.  All  those  truths  above  demonstrated,  relating  to  the  motions
'jf  bodies  about  the  foci  of  conic  sections,  will  take  place  when  an  attract
ing  sphere,  of  any  form  and  condition  like  that  above  described,  is  placed
in  the  focus.
COR.  9.  And  also  when  the  revolving  bodies  are  also  attracting  spheres
Df  any  condition  like  that  above  described.
224   THE    MATHEMATICAL    PRINCIPLES   [BOOK  I.
PROPOSITION  LXXVI1.     THEOREM  XXXVII.
Tf  to  1  he  several  points  of  spheres  there  tend  centripetal  forces  propor
tional  to  the  distances  of  the  points  from  the  attracted  bodies  ;  I  say,
that  the  compounded  force  with  which  two  spheres  attract  each  other
mutually  is  as  the  distance  between  the  centres  of  the  spheres.
CASE  1.  Let  AEBF  be  a  sphere ;  S  its
centre  .  P  a  corpuscle  attracted  :  PA  SB
the  axis  of  the  sphere  passing  through  the
centre  of  the  corpuscle  ;  EF,  ef  two  planes
cutting  the  sphere,  and  perpendicular  to
the  axis,  and  equi-distant,  one  on  one  side,
the  other  on  the  other,  from  the  centre  of
the  sphere ;  G  and  g-  the  intersections  of
the  planes  and  the  axis  ;  and  H  any  point  in  the  plane  EF.  The  centri
petal  force  of  the  point  H  upon  the  corpuscle  P,  exerted  in  the  direction  of
the  line  PH,  is  as  the  distance  PH  ;  and  (by  Cor.  2,  of  the  Laws)  the  same
exerted  in  the  direction  of  the  line  PG,  or  towards  the .  centre  S,  is  as  the
length  PG.  Therefore  the  force  of  all  the  points  in  the  plane  EF  (that  is,
of  that  whole  plane)  by  which  the  corpuscle  P  is  attracted  towards  the
centre  S  is  as  the  distance  PG  multiplied  by  the  number  of  those  points,
that  is,  as  the  solid  contained  under  that  plane  EF  and  the  distance  PG.
And  in  like  manner  the  force  of  the  plane  ef,  by  which  the  corpuscle  P  is
attracted  towards  the  centre  S,  is  as  that  plane  drawn  into  its  distance  Pg,
or  as  the  equal  plane  EF  drawn  into  that  distance  Pg* ;  and  the  sum  of  the
forces  of  both  planes  as  the  plane  EF  drawn  into  the  sum  of  the  distances
PG  +  P^,  that  is,  as  that  plane  drawn  into  twice  the  distance  PS  of  the
centre  and  the  corpuscle  ;  that  is,  as  twice  the  plane  EF  drawn  into  the  dis
tance  PS,  or  as  the  sum  of  the  equal  planes  EF  +  ef  drawn  into  the  same
distance.  And,  by  a  like  reasoning,  the  forces  of  all  the  planes  in  the
whole  sphere,  equi-distant  on  each  side  from  the  centre  of  the  sphere,  are
as  the  sum  of  those  planes  drawn  into  the  distance  PS,  that  is,  as  the
whole  sphere  and  the  distance  PS  conjunctly.  Q,.E.D.
CASE  2.  Let  now  the  corpuscle  P  attract  the  sphere  AEBF.  And,  by
the  same  reasoning,  it  will  appear  that  the  force  with  which  the  sphere  is
attracted  is  as  the  distance  PS.  Q,.E.D.
CASE  3.  Imagine  another  sphere  composed  of  innumerable  corpuscles  P  :
and  because  the  force  with  which  every  corpuscle  is  attracted  is  as  the  dis
tance  of  the  corpuscle  from  the  centre  of  the  first  sphere,  and  as  the  same
sphere  conjunctly,  and  is  therefore  the  same  as  if  it  all  proceeded  from  a
single  corpuscle  situate  in  the  centre  of  the  sphere,  the  entire  force  with
which  all  the  corpuscles  in  the  second  sphere  are  attracted,  that  is,  with
which  that  whole  sphere  is  attracted,  will  be  the  same  as  if  that  sphere
SEC.  Xll.]   OP    NATURAL    PHILOSOPHY.   225
were  attracted  by  a  force  issuing  from  a  single  corpuscle  in  the  centre  of
the  first  sphere ;  and  is  therefore  proportional  to  the  distance  between  the
centres  of  the  spheres.  Q,.E.D.
CASE  4.  Let  the  spheres  attract  each  other  mutually,  and  the  force  will
be  doubled,  but  the  proportion  will  remain.  Q..E.D.
CASE  5.  Let  the  corpuscle  p  be  placed  within  ^-    ^\E
the  sphere  AEBF  ;  and  because  the  force  of  the
plane  ef  upon  the  corpuscle  is  as  the  solid  contain
ed  under  that  plane  and  the  distance  jog' ;  and  the
contrary  force  of  the  plane  EF  as  the  solid  con
tained  under  that  plane  and  the  distance  joG ;  the  ^
force  compounded  of  both  will  be  as  the  difference  **
of  the  solids,  that  is,  as  the  sum  of  the  equal  planes  drawn  into  half  the
difference  of  the  distances  ;  that  is,  as  that  sum  drawn  into  joS,  the  distance
of  the  corpuscle  from  the  centre  of  the  sphere.  And,  by  a  like  reasoning,
the  attraction  of  all  the  planes  EF,  ef,  throughout  the  whole  sphere,  that
is,  the  attraction  of  the  whole  sphere,  is  conjunctly  as  the  sum  of  all  the
planes,  or  as  the  whole  sphere,  and  as  joS,  the  distance  of  the  corpuscle  from
the  centre  of  the  sphere.  Q.E.D.
CASE  6.  And  if  there  be  composed  a  new  sphere  out  of  innumerable  cor
puscles  such  as  jo,  situate  within  the  first  sphere  AEBF,  it  may  be  proved,
as  before,  that  the  attraction,  whether  single  of  one  sphere  towards  the
other,  or  mutual  of  both  towards  each  other,  will  be  as  the  distance  joS  of
the  centres.  Q,  E.D.
PROPOSITION  LXXVIII.     THEOREM  XXXVIII.
If  spheres  it*  the  progress  from  the  centre  to  the  circumference  be  hoivMtv
dissimilar  a->id  unequable,  but  similar  on  every  side  round  about  af  all
given  distances  from  the  centre  ;  and  the  attractive  force  of  evsrt/
point  be  as  the  distance  of  the  attracted  body  ;  I  say,  that  the  entire
force  with  which  two  spheres  of  this  kind  attract  each  other  mutitallij
is  proportional  to  the  distance  between  the  centres  of  the  spheres.
This  is  demonstrated  from  the  foregoing  Proposition,  in  the  same  man
ner  as  Proposition  LXXVI  was  demonstrated  from  Proposition  LXXY.
COR.  Those  things  that  were  above  demonstrated  in  Prop.  X  and  LXJV,
of  the  motion  of  bodies  round  the  centres  of  conic  sections,  take  place  when
all  the  attractions  are  made  by  the  force  of  sphaerical  bodies  of  the  condi
tion  above  described,  and  the  attracted  bodies  are  spheres  of  the  same  kind.
SCHOLIUM.
i  have  now  explained  the  two  principal  cases  of  attractions;  to  wit,
when  the  centripetal  forces  decrease  in  a  duplicate  ratio  of  the  distances
•r  increase  in  a  simple  ratio  of  the  distances,  causing  the  bodies  in  botli
15
226   THE    MATHEMATICAL    PRINCIPLES   [BoOK    1
cases  to  revolve  in  conic  sections,  and  composing  sphaerical  bodies  whose
centripetal  forces  observe  the  same  law  of  increase  or  decrease  in  the  recess
from  the  centre  as  the  forces  of  the  particles  themselves  do  ;  which  is  verv
remarkable.  It  would  be  tedious  to  run  over  the  other  cases,  whose  con
clusions  are  less  elegant  and  important,  so  particularly  as  I  have  done
these.  I  choose  rather  to  comprehend  and  determine  them  all  by  one  gen
eral  method  as  follows.  LEMMA  XXIX.
ff  about  the  centre  S  there  be  described  any  circle  as  AEB,  and  about  the
centre  P  there  be.  also  described  two  circles  EF,  ef,  cutting  the  Jirst  in
E  and  e,  and  the  line  PS  in  F  and  f ;  and  there  be  let  fall  to  PS  the
perpendiculars  ED,  ed ;  I  say,  that  if  the  distance  of  the  arcs  EF;  ef
be  supposed  to  be  infinitely  diminished,  the  last  ratio  of  the  evanscent
linr  Dd  to  the  evanescent  line  Ff  is  the  same  as  that  of  the  line  PE  to
the  live  PS.
For  if  the  line  Pe  cut  the  arc  EF  in  q  ;  and  the  right  line 

---

ference  of  the  forces mt
proportional  thereto,  are  reciprocally  as  the  cube  of  the  altitude  pC.
Q.E.D.
COR.  I.  Hence  the  difference  of  the  forces  in  the  places  P  and  p,  or  K  and
/.*,  is  to  the  force  with  which  a  body  may  revolve  with  a  circular  motion
from  R  to  K,  in  the  same  time  that  the  body  P  in  an  immovable  orb  de
scribes  the  arc  PK,  as  the  nascent  line  m,n  to  the  versed  sine  of  the  nascent
mk  X  ms       rk2
arc  RK,  that  is,  as     —  —  to  ^g,  or  as  mk  X  ms  to   the  square  of
rk  ;  that  is.  if  we  take  given  quantities  F  and  G  in  the  same  ratio  to  one
another  as  the  angle  VCP  bears  to  the  angle  VQ?,  as  GG  —  FF  to  FF.
And,  therefore,  if  from  the  centre  C,  with  any  distance  CP  or  Cp,  there  be
described  a  circular  sector  equal  to  the  whole  area  VPC,  which  the  body
OEC.  IX.l  OF    NATURAL     PHILOSOPHY.  175
revolving  in  an  immovable  orbit  has  by  a  radius  drawn  to  the  centre  de-
bribed  in  any  certain  time,  the  difference  of  the  forces,  with  which  the
body  P  revolves  in  an  immovable  orbit,  and  the  body  p  in  a  movable  or
bit,  will  be  to  the  centripetal  force,  with  which  another  body  by  a  radius
drawn  to  the  centre  can  uniformly  describe  that  sector  in  the  same  time
as  the  area  VPC  is  described,  as  GG  —  FF  to  FF.  For  that  sector  and
the  area  pCk  are  to  one  another  as  the  times  in  which  they  are  described.
COR.  2.  If  the  orbit  YPK  be  an
ellipsis,  having  its  focus  C,  and  its
highest  apsis  Y,  and  we  suppose  the
the  ellipsis  upk  similar  and  equal  to     ..
it,  so  that  pC  may  be  always  equal  /
to  PC,  and  the  angle  YC/?  be  to  the  •;
angle  YCP  in  the  given  ratio  of  G   \
to  F  ;  and  for  the  altitude  PC  or  pC    \
we  put  A,  and  2R  for  the  latus  rec-   /t\
turn  of  the  ellipsis,  the  force  with       *
which  a  body  may   be  made  to  re
volve  in  a  movable  ellipsis  will  be  as
FF       RGG  —  RFF
— -  +   -      — -rg —    —  ,  and  vice  versa. /Y  A.   A.
Let  the  force  with  which  a  body  may
revolve  in  an  immovable  ellipsis  be  expressed  by  the  quantity       ,  and  the
-.  7
force  in  V  will  be  FF  But  the  force  with  which  a  body  may  revolve  in
a  circle  at  the  distance  CY,  with  the  same  velocity  as  a  body  revolving  in
an  ellipsis  has  in  Y,  is  to  the  force  with  which  a  body  revolving  in  an  ellip
sis  is  acted  upon  in  the  apsis  Y,  as  half  the  latus  rectum  of  the  ellipsis  to  the
RFF
semi-diameter  CY  of  the  circle,  and  therefore  is  as    ,     =-  :    and    tlu
RFF
which  is  to  this,  as  GG  —  FF  to  FF,  is  as  -    ~py^~~     ~:  and  this  force
(by  Cor.  1  cf  this  Prop.)  is  the  difference  of  the  forces  in  Y,  with  which  the
body  P  revolves  in  the  immovable  ellipsis  YPK,  and  the  body  p  in  the
movable  ellipsis  upk.  Therefore  since  by  this  Prop,  that  difference  at
any  other  altitude  A  is  to  itself  at  the  altitude  CY  as  -r-,  to  ^TF-»  the  same
AJ      CYJ
R  C^  ( "*   R  P^  T*1
difference  in  every  altitude  A  will  be  as  -       —  3 —  : —  .    Therefore  to  the
FF
force  -T-:  ,  by  which  the  body  may  revolve  in  an  immovable  ellipsis  VPK
176   THE    MATHEMATICAL    PRINCIPLES   [BOOK    I.
idd  the  excess  —    -:-=    ,  and  the  sum  will  be  the  whole  force  -r-r  -\- A   AA
RGG  —  RFF,
.-5 —       by  which  a  body  may  revolve  in  the  same  time  in  the  mot- A.
•able  ellipsis  upk.
COR.  3.  In  the  same  manner  it  will  be  found,  that,  if  the  immovable  or
bit  VPK  be  an  ellipsis  having  its  centre  in  the  centre  of  the  forces  C}  and
there  be  supposed  a  movable  ellipsis  -upk,  similar,  equal,  and  concentrical
to  it ;  and  2R  be  the  principal  latus  rectum  of  that  ellipsis,  and  2T  the
latus  transversum,  or  greater  axis ;  and  the  angle  VCjo  be  continually  to  the
angle  TCP  as  G  to  F ;  the  forces  with  which  bodies  may  revolve  in  the  im-
FFA   FFA
movable  and  movable  ellipsis,  in  equal  times,  will  be  as     ^      and  -p™~
RGG  —  RFF
+          —  .-3     respectively. A
COR.  4.  And  universally,  if  the  greatest  altitude  CV  of  the  body  be  called
T,  and  the  radius  of  the  curvature  which  the  orbit  VPK  has  in  Y,  that  is,
the  radius  of  a  circle  equally  curve,  be  called  R,  and  the  centripetal  force
with  which  a  body  may  revolve  in  any  immovable  trajectory  VPK  at  the  place
VFF
V  be    called    -f-=Trri  ,  and  in  other  places  P  be  indefinitely  styled  X ;  and  the
altitude  CP  be  called  A,  and  G  be  taken  to  F  in  the  given  ratio  of  the
angle  VCjD  to  the  angle  VCP  ;  the  centripetal  force  with  which  the  same
body  will  perform  the  same  motions  in  the  same  time,  in  the  same  trajectory
•upk  revolving  with  a  circular  motion,  will  be  as  the  sum  of  the  forces  X  -f-
VRGG  —  VRFF ~  A*
COR.  5.  Therefore  the  motion  of  a  body  in  an  immovable  orbit  being
given,  its  angular  motion  round  the  centre  of  the  forces  may  be  increased
or  diminished  in  a  given  ratio;  and  thence  new  immovable  orbits  may  be
found  in  which  bodies  may  revolve  with  new  centripetal  forces.
COR.  6.  Therefore  if  there  be  erected  the  line  VP  of  an  indeterminate
-p   length,  perpendicular  to  the  line  CV  given  by  po
sition,  and  CP  be  drawn,  and  Cp  equal  to  it,  mak
ing  the  angle  VC/?  having  a  given  ratio  to  the  an
gle  VCP,  the  force  with  which  a  body  may  revolve
in  the  curve  line  Vjo/r,  which  the  point  p  is  con
tinually  describing,  will  be  reciprocally  as  the  cube
C  of  the  altitude  Cp.  For  the  body  P,  by  its  vis  in
ertia  alone,  no  other  force  impelling  it,  will  proceed  uniformly  in  the  right
line  VP.  Add,  then,  a  force  tending  to  the  centre  C  reciprocally  as  the
cube  of  the  altitude  CP  or  Cp,  and  (by  what  was  just  demonstrated)  the
SEC.    IX..J   OF    NATURAL    PHILOSOPHY.   177
body  will  deflect  from  the  rectilinear  motion  into  the  curve  line  Ypk.  But
this  curve  ~Vpk  is  the  same  with  the  curve  VPQ  found  in  Cor.  3,  Prop
XLI,  in  which,  I  said,  hodies  attracted  with  such  forces  would  ascend
obliquely.
PROPOSITION  XLV.     PROBLEM  XXXL
To  find  the  motion  of  the  apsides  in  orbits  approaching  very  near  to
circles.
This  problem  is  solved  arithmetically  by  reducing  the  orbit,  which  a
body  revolving  in  a  movable  ellipsis  (as  in  Cor.  2  and  3  of  the  above
Prop.)  describes  in  an  immovable  plane,  to  the  figure  of  the  orbit  whose
apsides  are  required  ;  and  then  seeking  the  apsides  of  the  orbit  which  that
body  describes  in  an  immovable  plane.  But  orbits  acquire  the  same  figure,
if  the  centripetal  forces  with  which  they  are  described,  compared  between
themselves,  are  made  proportional  at  equal  altitudes.  Let  the  point  V  be
the  highest  apsis,  and  write  T  for  the  greatest  altitude  CV,  A  for  any  other
altitude  CP  or  C/?,  and  X  for  the  difference  of  the  altitudes  C V  —  CP  :
and  the  force  writh  which  a  body  moves  in  an  ellipsis  revolving  about  its
•p  -p       T?  C*  f  ^    T?  F*  F
focus  C  (as  in  Cor.  2),  and  which  in  Cor.  2  was  as  -r-r  -\ —   — -.-3 —  —  ,
FFA  +  RGG  —  RFF  ,
that  is  as,    -^ —     ,  by  substituting  T  —  X  for  A,  will  be- A
RGG  —  RFF  +  TFF  —  FFX
come  as    -p —     .  In  like  manner  any  other  cen
tripetal  force  is  to  be  reduced  to  a  fraction  whose  denominator  is  A3,  and
the  numerators  are  to  be  made  analogous  by  collating  together  the  homo
logous  terms.  This  will  be  made  plainer  by  Examples.
EXAMPLE  1.    Let   us   suppose   the   centripetal    force   to   be   uniform,
A3
and
therefore
as   —3
or,
writing
T  —   X   for   A
in
the
numerator,
as
T3  —  3TTX  +  3TXX  —  X3
—   —         — =-.      Ihen  collating  together  the  correspon-
A3
dent  terms  of  the  numerators,  that  is,  those  that  consist  of  given  quantities,
with  those  of  given  quantities,  and  'those  of  quantities  not  given  with  those
of  quantities  not  given,  it  will  become  RGG  —  RFF  -f-  TFF  to  T3  as  —
FFX  to  3TTX  -f  3TXX  —  X3,  or  as  — FF  to  —  3TT  +  3TX  —  XX.
Now  since  the  orbit  is  supposed  extremely  near  to  a  circle,  let  it  coincide
with  a  circle ;  and  because  in  that  case  R  and  T  become  equal,  and  X  is
infinitely  diminished,  the  last  ratios  will  be,  as  RGG  to  T2,  so  —  FF  to  —
3TT,  or  as  GG  to  TT,  so  FF  to  3TT;  and  again,  as  GG  to  FF,  so  TT
to  3TT,  that  is,  as  1  to  3  ;  and  therefore  G  is  to  F,  that  is,  the  angle  VC/?
to  the  angle  VCP,  as  1  to  v/3.  Therefore  since  the  body,  in  an  immovable
178   THE    MATHEMATICAL    PRINCIPLES   [BOOK    I
ellipsis,  in  descending  from  the  upper  to  the  lower  apsis,  describes  an  angle,
if  I  may  so  speak,  of  ISO  deg.,  the  other  body  in  a  movable  ellipsis,  and  there
fore  in  the  immovable  orbit  we  are  treating  of,  will  in  its  descent  from
180
the  upper  to  the  lower  apsis,  describe  an  angle  VCjt?  of  — ^  deg.     And  this
\/o
comes  to  pass  by  reason  of  the  likeness  of  this  orbit  which  a  body  acted
upon  by  an  uniform  centripetal  force  describes,  and  of  that  orbit  which  a
body  performing  its  circuits  in  a  revolving  ellipsis  will  describe  in  a  quies
cent  plane.  By  this  collation  of  the  terms,  these  orbits  are  made  similar  ;
not  universally,  indeed,  but  then  only  when  they  approach  very  near  to  a
circular  figure.  A  body,  therefore  revolving  with  an  uniform  centripetal 180
force  in  an  orbit  nearly  circular,  will  always  describe  an  angle  of  — »  deg/,  or
v/o
103  deg.,  55  m.,  23  sec.,  at  the  centre;  moving  from  the  upper  apsis  to  the
lower  apsis  when  it  has  once  described  that  angle,  and  thence  returning  to
the  upper  apsis  when  it  has  described  that  angle  again ;  and  so  on  in  in-
finitwn.
EXAM.  2.  Suppose  the  centripetal  force  to  be  as  any  power  of  the  alti-
An
tude  A,  as,  for  example,  An — 3,  or-r^  ;  where  n  —  3  and  n  signify  any  in-
A.
dices  of  powers  whatever,  whether  integers  or  fractions,  rational  or  surd,
affirmative  or  negative.  That  numerator  An  or  T  —  X|n  being  reduced  to
an  indeterminate  series  by  my  method  of  converging  series,  will  become
Tn  —  >/XTn— T  +  •  —  ^  XXTn—  2,  &c.  And  conferring  these  terms
with  the  terms  of  the  other  numerator  RGG  —  RFF  +  TFF  —  FFX,  it
becomes  as  RGG  —  RFF  4-  TFF  to  Tn,  so  —  FF  to  —  ?/.Tn— r  +  ?~^
XTn —  2,  &c.  And  taking  the  last  ratios  where  the  orbits  approach  to
circles,  it  becomes  as  RGG  to  T'1,  so  —  FF  to  —  nT-1— T,  or  as  GG  to
T"— ',  so  FF  to  ?*Tn—  ;  and  again,  GG  to  FF,  so  Tn— l  to  nT"—1,  that
is,  as  1  to  n  ;  and  therefore  G  is  to  F,  that  is  the  angle  VCp  to  the  angle
VCP,  as  1  to  ^/n.  Therefore  since  the  angle  VCP,  described  in  the  de
scent  of  the  body  from  the  upper  apsis  to  the  lower  apsis  in  an  ellipsis,  is
of  180  deg.,  the  angle  VC/?,  described  in  the  descent  of  the  body  from  the
upper  apsis  to  the  lower  apsis  in  an  orbit  nearly  circular  which  a  body  de
scribes  with  a  centripetal  force  proportional  to  the  power  An — 3,  will  be  equal
ISO
to   an  angle  of  -  —  deg.,  and  this  angle  being  repeated,  the  body  will  re-
\/ti turn  from  the  lower  to  the  upper  apsis,  and  so  on  in  infinitum.  As  if  the
centripetal  force  be  as  the  distance  of  the  body  from  the  centre,  that  is,  as  A,
A4
or
-p,
n
will
be
equal  to
4,
and
^/n
equal  to
2  ;  and
thereLre
the
angle
IX.]   OF    NATURAL    PHILOSOPHY.   IT9
ISO
between  the  upper  and  the  lower  apsis  will  be  equal  to  —  deg.,  or  90  deg.
Therefore  the  body  having  performed  a  fourth  part  of  one  revolution,  will
arrive  at  the  lower  apsis,  and  having  performed  another  fourth  part,  will
arrive  at  the  upper  apsis,  and  so  on  by  turns  in  infiuitum.  This  appears
also  from  Prop.  X.  For  a  body  acted  on  by  this  centripetal  force  will  re
volve  in  an  immovable  ellipsis,  whose  centre  is  the  centre  of  force.  If  the
1       A2
centripetal  force  is  reciprocally  as  the  distance,  that  is,  directly  as  —  or  —
£     '   A       A"'
ji  will  be  equal  to  2 ;  and  therefore  the  angle  between  the  upper  and  lower
180
apsis  will  be  — -  deg.,  or  127  deg.,  16  min.,  45  sec.  ;  and  therefore  a  body  re
v/2 volving  with  such  a  force,  will  by  a  perpetual  repetition  of  this  angle,  move
alternately  from  the  upper  to  the  lower  and  from  the  lower  to  the  upper
apsis  for  ever.  So.  also,  if  the  centripetal  force  be  reciprocally  as  the
biquadrate  root  of  the  eleventh  power  of  the  altitude,  that  is,  reciprocally
as  A  —,  and,  therefore,  directly  as  -r-fp  or  as  Ts>  n  wil*  ^e  etlual   f°  \>  an(1 4   A^-   A 1  Of)
-  deg.  will  be  equal  to  360  deg. ;  and  therefore  the  body  parting  from
v/ n
the  upper  apsis,  and  from  thence  perpetually  descending,  will  arrive  at  the
lower  apsis  when  it  has  completed  one  entire  revolution  ;  and  thence  as
cending  perpetually,  when  it  has  completed  another  entire  revolution,  it
will  arrive  again  at  the  upper  apsis ;  and  so  alternately  for  ever.
EXAM.  3.    Taking  m  and  n  for  any  indices  of  the  powers  of  the  alti
tude,  and  b  and  c  for  any  given  numbers,  suppose  the  centripetal   force
6Ara  +  cA"   b   into    T  —  X>  -f-  c  into    T  —  X
to  be  as     r^      that   is,  as A3   A3
or     (by     the     method     of     converging      series      above-mentioned)     as
bTm  +  cTn  —  m6XT"  -1     //cXTn—  '      mm  —  m   vvrpm   un  —  n
~~2  --  0A.A1   —  ^— —
t-XXT"  —  2,  «fcc.
—  T$~—      ~  and  comparing   the  terms  of  the  numerators,  there  will
arise  RGG  —  II  FF  -f  TFF  to  ^Tm  +  cT"  as  —  FF  to  —  mbTm  —  i  —
"  -  «  +          2"  m  bXT"  -  *  +  "^p  cXTn  -  »  .fee.     And  tak-
ing  the  last  ratios  that  arise  when  the  orbits  come  to  a  circular  form,  there
will  come  forth  GG  to  6Tm  —  l  -f  cTn  —  1  as  FF  to  mbTm  —  l  +  ncT"  —  J  ;
and  again,  GG  to  FF  as  6Tm  —  '  +  cTn  —  '  to  mbTn  —  1  -f  ncTn  —  \
This  proportion,  by  expressing  the  greatest  altitude  CV  or  T  arithmeti
cally  by  unity,  becomes,  GG  to  FF  as  b  -{-  c  to  mb  -\-  ?/c,  and  therefore  as  I
(80   THE    MATHEMATICAL    PRINCIPLES   [BOOK    1
tub  ~h  nc
to  -  y—7— —  •     Whence  G  becomes  to  P,  that  is,  the  angle  VCjo  to  the  an- f)   ~T~   C
gle  VCP.  as  1  to  >/-  .       -'-.     And  therefore  since  the  angle  VCP  between
the  upper  and  the  lower  apsis,  in  an  immovable  ellipsis,  is  of  180  deg.,  thr
angle  VC/?  between  the  same  apsides  in  an  orbit  which  a  body  describes
b  A  m    I    c  A  n
with  a  centripetal  force,  that  is.  as  -  — r§—  ,  will  be  equal  to  an  angle  of A.
ISO  v/— 1~TT~ ;  deg.  And  °y  tne  same  reasoning,  if  the  centripetal  force
be  as  -  —73    ,  the  angle  between  the  apsides  will  be  found  equal  to
fi      f*
18o  V'' — - —      -  deg.     After  the  same  manner  the  Problem  is  solved  in nib  —  >ic
more  difficult  cases.  The  quantity  to  which  the  centripetal  force  is  pro
portional  must  always  be  resolved  into  a  converging  series  whose  denomi
nator  is  A*.  Then  the  given  part  of  the  numerator  arising  from  that
operation  is  to  be  supposed  in  the  same  ratio  to  that  part  of  it  which  is  not
given,  as  the  given  part  of  this  numerator  RGG  —  RFF  -f  TFF  —  FFX.
is  to  that  part  of  the  same  numerator  which  is  not  given.  And  taking
away  the  superfluous  quantities,  and  writing  unity  for  T,  the  proportion
of  G  to  F  is  obtained.
COR.  1 .  Hence  if  the  centripetal  force  be  as  any  power  of  the  altitude,
that  power  may  be  found  from  the  motion  of  the  apsides ;  and  so  contra
riwise.  That  is,  if  the  whole  angular  motion,  with  which  the  body  returns
to  the  same  apsis,  be  to  the  angular  motion  of  one  revolution,  or  360  deg.,
MS  any  number  as  m  to  another  as  n,  and  the  altitude  called  A ;  the  force
nn
will  be  as  the  power  A  HSii  —  3  of  the  altitude  A;  the  index  of  which  power  is
-  —  3.     This  appears  by  the  second  example.     Hence  it  is  plain  that
the  force  in  its  recess  from  the  centre  cannot  decrease  in  a  greater  than  a
triplicate  ratio  of  the  altitude.  A  body  revolving  with  such  a  force,  and
parting  from  the  apsis,  if  it  once  begins  to  descend,  can  never  arrive  at  the
lower  apsis  or  least  altitude,  but  will  descend  to  the  centre,  describing  the
curve  line  treated  of  in  Cor.  3,  Prop.  XLL  But  if  it  should,  at  its  part
ing  from  the  lower  apsis,  begin  to  ascend  never  so  little,  it  will  ascend  in
irtfimtifm,  and  never  come  to  the  upper  apsis ;  but  will  describe  the  curve
line  spoken  of  in  the  same  Cor.,  and  Cor.  6,  Prop.  XLIV.  So  that  where
the  force  in  its  recess  from  the  centre  decreases  in  a  greater  than  a  tripli
cate  ratio  of  the  altitude,  the  body  at  its  parting  from  the  apsis,  will  either
descend  to  the  centre,  or  ascend  in  iiiftnitum,  according  as  it  descends  or
Ascends  at  the  beginning  of  its  motion.  But  if  the  force  in  its  recess  from
"SEC.    IX.J   OF    NATURAL    PHILOSOPHY.   ISi
the  centre  either  decreases  in  a  less  than  a  triplicate  ratio  of  the  altitude,
or  increases  in  any  ratio  of  the  altitude  whatsoever,  the  body  will  never
descend  to  the  centre,  but  will  at  some  time  arrive  at  the  lower  apsis  ;  and,
on  the  contrary,  if  the  body  alternately  ascending  and  descending  from  one
apsis  to  another  never  comes  to  the  centre,  then  either  the  force  increases
in  the  recess  from  the  centre,  or  it  decreases  in  a  less  than  a  triplicate  ratio
of  the  altitude;  and  the  sooner  the  body  returns  from  one  apsis  to  another,
the  farther  is  the  ratio  of  the  forces  from  the  triplicate  ratio.  As  if  the
body  should  return  to  and  from  the  upper  apsis  by  an  alternate  descent  and
ascent  in  8  revolutions,  or  in  4,  or  2,  or  \\  •  that  is,  if  m  should  be  to  n  as  8,
or  4,  or  2,  or  H  to  1.  and  therefore  ---  3,  be  g\  —  3,or  TV~  3,  or  i  —  3,  or mm
3
I  -  3  ;  then  the  force  will  be  as  A~   ?  or  AT°  "~  3j  or  A*~~  3j  or  A""  G  '
that  is.  it  will  be  reciprocally  as  A3  C4'  or  A3  T^'  or  A3  4'  or  A3  ""
If  the  body  after  each  revolution  returns  to  the  same  apsis,  and  the  apsis
nn    _
remains  unmoved,  then  m  will  be  to  n  as  1  to  1,  and  therefore  A»"«
will  be  equal  to  A     2,  or  —  -  ;  and  therefore  the  decrease  of  the  forces  will A  A
be  in  a  duplicate  ratio  of  the  altitude  ;  as  was  demonstrated  above.  If  the
body  in  three  fourth  parts,  or  two  thirds,  or  one  third,  or  one  fourth  part
of  an  entire  revolution,  return  to  the  same  apsis  ;  m  will  be  to  n  as  £  or  ?
n  n   i_6  _  3   9  _  3   o
or  ^  or  i  to  1,  and  therefore  Amm     3  is  equal  to  A  9        'or  A4         or  A
_  3   1  6  _  3   l_l
'  '  or  A   ;  and  therefore  the  force  is  either  reciprocally  as  A  fl      or 3   613
A4'  or  directly  as  A  or  A  .  Lastly  if  the  body  in  its  progress  from  the
upper  apsis  to  the  same  upper  apsis  again,  goes  over  one  entire  revolution
and  three  deg.  more,  and  therefore  that  apsis  in  each  revolution  of  the  body
moves  three  deg.  in  consequentia  ;  then  m  will  be  to  u  as  363  deg.  to
360  deg.  or  as   121   to   120,  and  therefore   Amm   will   be    equal    to
2  9_  5_  2_  JJ
A   "'  and   therefore  the  centripetal  force   will    be   reciprocally  as
^T4"6TT>  or  reciprocally  as  A2^4^  very  nearly.  Therefore  the  centripetal
force  decreases  in  a  ratio  something  greater  than  the  duplicate  ;  but  ap
proaching  59f  times  nearer  to  the  duplicate  than  the  triplicate.
COR.  2.  Hence  also  if  a  body,  urged  by  a  centripetal  force  which  is  re
ciprocally  as  the  square  of  the  altitude,  revolves  in  an  ellipsis  whose  focus
is  in  the  centre  of  the  forces ;  and  a  new  and  foreign  force  should  be  added
to  or  subducted  from  this  centripetal  force,  the  motion  of  the  apsides  arising
from  that  foreign  force  may  (by  the  third  Example)  be  known  ;  and  so  on
the  contrary.  As  if  the  force  with  which  the  body  revolves  in  the  ellipsis
182   THE    MATHEMATICAL    PRINCIPLES   [BOOK    I
oe  as  -r-r-  ;  and  the  foreign  force  subducted  as  cA,  and  therefore  the  remain- A  .A.
^     c^4
ing  force  as  —  -^    ;  then  (by  the  third  Example)  b  will  be  equal  to   1.
m  equal  to  1,  and  n  equal  to  4 ;  and  therefore  the  angle  of  revolution  be
1  —  c
•tween  the  apsides  is  equal  to  180  <*/-    —  deg.     Suppose  that  foreign  force
to  be  357.45  parts  less  than  the  other  force  with  which  the  body  revolves
in  the  ellipsis  :  that  is,  c  to  be  -3  }y£  j  ;  A  or  T  being  equal  to  1  ;  and  then
l8(Vl~4c  will  be  18<Vfff  Jf  or  180.7623,  that  is,  180  deg.,  45  min.,
44  sec.  Therefore  the  body,  parting  from  the  upper  apsis,  will  arrive  at
the  lower  apsis  with  an  angular  motion  of  180  deg.,  45  min.,  44  sec  ,  and
this  angular  motion  being  repeated,  will  return  to  the  upper  apsis ;  and
therefore  the  upper  apsis  in  each  revolution  will  go  forward  1  deg.,  31  min.,
28  sec.  The  apsis  of  the  moon  is  about  twice  as  swift
So  much  for  the  motion  of  bodies  in  orbits  whose  planes  pass  through
the  centre  of  force.  It  now  remains  to  determine  those  motions  in  eccen
trical  planes.  For  those  authors  who  treat  of  the  motion  of  heavy  bodies
used  to  consider  the  ascent  and  descent  of  such  bodies,  not  only  in  a  per
pendicular  direction,  but  at  all  degrees  of  obliquity  upon  any  given  planes  ;
and  for  the  same  reason  we  are  to  consider  in  this  place  the  motions  of
bodies  tending  to  centres  by  means  of  any  forces  whatsoever,  when  those
bodies  move  in  eccentrical  planes.  These  planes  are  supposed  to  be
perfectly  smooth  and  polished,  so  as  not  to  retard  the  motion  of  the  bodies
in  the  least.  Moreover,  in  these  demonstrations,  instead  of  the  planes  upon
which  those  bodies  roll  or  slide,  and  which  are  therefore  tangent  planes  to
the  bodies,  I  shall  use  planes  parallel  to  them,  in  which  the  centres  of  the
bodies  move,  and  by  that  motion  describe  orbits.  And  by  the  same  method
I  afterwards  determine  the  motions  of  bodies  performer1  in  curve  superficies.
SECTION  X.
Of  the  motion  of  bodies  in  given  superficies,  and  of  the  reciprocal  motion
of fnnependulous  bodies.
PROPOSITION  XL VI.     PROBLEM  XXXII.
Any  kind  of  centripetal  force  being  supposed,  and  the  centre  of 'force •,  atfft
any  plane  whatsoever  in  which  the  body  revolves,  being  given,  and  tint
quadratures  of  curvilinear  figures  being  allowed;  it  is  required  to  de
termine  the  motion  of  a  body  going  off  from  a  given  place.,  with  a
given  velocity,  in  the  direction  of  a  given  right  line  in,  that  plane.
SEC.  X.J   OF    NATURAL    PHILOSOPHY-   183
Let  S  be  the  centre  of  force,  SC  the
least  distance  of  that  centre  from  the  given
plane,  P  a  body  issuing  from  the  place  P
in  the  direction  of  the  right  line  PZ,  Q,
the  same  body  revolving  in  its  trajectory,
and  PQ,R  the  trajectory  itself  which  is
required  to  be  found,  described  in  that
given  plane.  Join  CQ,  Q.S,  and  if  in  Q,S
we  take  SV  proportional  to  the  centripetal
force  with  which  the  body  is  attracted  to
wards  the  centre  S,  and  draw  VT  parallel
to  CQ,  and  meeting  SC  in  T  ;  then  will  the  force  SV  be  resolved  into
two  (by  Cor.  2,  of  the  Laws  of  Motion),  the  force  ST,  and  the  force  TV  ;  of
which  ST  aMracting  the  body  in  the  direction  of  a  line  perpendicular  to
that  plane,  does  not  at  all  change  its  motion  in  that  plane.  But  the  action
c  f  the  other  force  TV,  coinciding  with  the  position  of  the  plane  itself,  at
tracts  the  body  directly  towards  the  given  point  C  in  that  plane ;  a«d
t  icreftre  causes  the  body  to  move  in  this  plane  in  the  same  manner  as  if
the  force  S  F  were  taken  away,  and  the  body  were  to  revolve  in  free  space
about  the  centre  C  by  means  of  the  force  TV  alone.  But  there  being  given
the  centripetal  force  TV  with  which  the  body  Q,  revolves  in  free  space
about  the  given  centre  C,  there  is  given  (by  Prop.  XLII)  the  trajectory
PQ.R  which  the  body  describes  ;  the  place  Q,,  in  which  the  body  will  be
found  at  any  given  time ;  and,  lastly,  the  velocity  of  the  body  in  that  place
Q,.  And  so  e  contra.  Q..E.I.
PROPOSITION  XLV1L     THEOREM  XV.
Supposing  the  centripetal  force  to  be  proportional  to  t/ie  distance  of  the
body  from  the  centre  ;  all  bodies  revolving  in  any  planes  whatsoever
will  describe  ellipses,  and  complete  their  revolutions  in  equal  times  ;
and  those  which  move  in  right  lines,  running  backwards  and  forwards
alternately ',  will  complete  ttieir  several  periods  of  going  and  returning
in  the  same  times.
For  letting  all  things  stand  as  in  the  foregoing  Proposition,  the  force
SV,  with  which  the  body  Q,  revolving  in  any  plane  PQ,R  is  attracted  to
wards  the  centre  S,  is  as  the  distance  SO.  ;  and  therefore  because  SV  and
SQ,,  TV  and  CQ,  are  proportional,  the  force  TV  with  which  the  body  is
attracted  towards  the  given  point  C  in  the  plane  of  the  orbit  is  as  the  dis
tance  CQ,.  Therefore  the  forces  with  which  bodies  found  in  the  plane
PQ,R  are  attracted  towaitis  the  point  O,  are  in  proportion  to  the  distances
equal  to  the  forces  with  which  the  same  bodies  are  attract-ed  every  way  to
wards  the  centre  S  ;  and  therefore  the  bodies  will  move  in  the  same  times,
and  in  the  same  figures,  in  any  plane  PQR  about  the  point  C.  n*  they
THE    MATHEMATICAL    PRINCIPLES   [BOOK   I.
would  do  in  free  spaces  about  the  centre  S ;  and  therefore  (by  Cor.  2,  Prop.
X,  ai  d  Cor.  2,  Prop.  XXXVIII.)  they  will  in  equal  times  either  describe
ellipses  m  that  plane  about  the  centre  C,  or  move  to  and  fro  in  right  lines
passing  through  the  centre  C  in  that  plane;  completing  the  same  periods
of  time  in  all  cases.  Q.E.D.
SCHOLIUM.
The  ascent  and  descent  of  bodies  in  curve  superficies  has  a  near  relation
to  these  motions  we  have  been  speaking  of.  Imagine  curve  lines  to  be  de
scribed  on  any  plane,  and  to  revolve  about  any  given  axes  passing  through
the  centre  of  force,  and  by  that  revolution  to  describe  curve  superficies  ;  and
that  the  bodies  move  in  such  sort  that  their  centres  may  be  always  found
m  those  superficies.  If  those  bodies  reciprocate  to  and  fro  with  an  oblique
ascent  and  descent,  their  motions  will  be  performed  in  planes  passing  through
tiie  axis,  and  therefore  in  the  curve  lines,  by  whose  revolution  those  curve
superficies  were  generated.  In  those  cases,  therefore,  it  will  be  sufficient  to
consider  thp  motion  in  those  curve  lines.
PROPOSITION  XL VIII.     THEOREM  XVI.
If  a  wheel  stands  npon  the  outside  of  a  globe  at  right  angles  thereto,  and
revolving  about  its  own  axis  goes  forward  in  a  great  circle,  the  length
of  lite  curvilinear  path  which  any  point,  given  in  the  perimeter  of  the
wheel,  hath  described,  since,  the  time  that  it  touched  the  globe  (which
curvilinear  path  w~e  may  call  the  cycloid,  or  epicycloid),  will  be  to  double
the  versed  sine  of  half  the  arc  which  since  that  time  has  touched  the
globe  in  passing  over  it,  as  the  sn,m  of  the  diameters  of  the  globe  and
the  wheel  to  the  semi-diameter  of  the  globe.
PROPOSITION  XLIX.     THEOREM  XVII.
ff  a  wheel  stand  upon  the  inside  of  a  concave  globe  at  right  angles  there
to,  and  revolving  about  its  own  axis  go  forward  in  one  of  the  great
circles  of  the  globe,  the  length  of  the  curvilinear  path  which  any  point,
given  in  the  perimeter  of  the  wheel^  hath  described  since  it  toncJied  the
globe,  imll  be  to  the  double  of  the  versed  sine  of  half  the  arc  which  in
all  that  time  has  touched  the  globe  in  passing  over  it,  as  the  difference
of  the  diameters  of  the  globe  and  the  wheel  to  the  semi-diameter  of  the
globe.
Let  ABL  be  the  globe.  C  its  centre,  BPV  the  wheel  insisting  thereon,
E  the  centre  of  the  wheel,  B  the  point  of  contact,  and  P  the  given  point
in  the  perimeter  of  the  wheel.  Imagine  this  wheel  to  proceed  in  the  great
circle  ABL  from  A  through  B  towards  L,  and  in  its  progress  to  revolve  in
such  a  manner  that  the  arcs  AB,  PB  may  be  always  equal  one  to  the  other,
:if;d  the  given  point  P  in  the  peri  meter  of  the  wheel  may  describe  in  thf
SEC.  X.I  OF    NATURAL    PHILOSOPHY.
s
185
H
mean  time  the  curvilinear  path  AP.  Let  AP  be  the  whole  curvilinear
path  described  since  the  wheel  touched  the  globe  in  A,  and  the  length  cf
this  path  AP  will  be  to  twice  the  versed  sine  of  the  arc  |PB  as  20 E  to
CB.  For  let  the  right  line  CE  (produced  if  need  be)  meet  the  wheel  in  V,
and  join  CP,  BP,  EP,  VP  ;  produce  CP,  and  let  fall  thereon  the  perpen
dicular  VF.  Let  PH,  VH,  meeting  in  H,  touch  the  circle  in  P  and  V,
and  let  PH  cut  YF  in  G,  and  to  VP  let  fall  the  perpendiculars  GI,  HK.
From  the  centre  C  with  any  interval  let  there  be  described  the  circle  wow,
cutting  the  right  line  CP  in  nt  the  perimeter  of  the  wheel  BP  in  o,  and
the  curvilinear  path  AP  in  m  ;  and  from  the  centre  V  with  the  interval
Vo  let  there  be  described  a  circle  cutting  VP  produced  in  q.
Because  the  wheel  in  its  progress  always  revolves  about  the  point  of  con
tact  B.  it  is  manifest  that  the  right  line  BP  is  perpendicular  to  that  curve  line
AP  which  the  point  P  of  the  wheel  describes,  and  therefore  that  the  right
line  VP  will  touch  this  curve  in  the  point  P.  Let  the  radius  of  the  circle  nmn
be  gradually  increased  or  diminished  so  that  at  last  it  become  equal  to  the
distance  CP ;  and  by  reason  of  the  similitude  of  the  evanescent  figure
Pnn-mq,  and  the  figure  PFGVI,  the  ultimate  ratio  of  the  evanescent  lined  ae
Pra,  P//,  Po,  P<y,  that  is,  the  ratio  of  the  momentary  mutations  of  the  curve
AP,  the  right  line  CP,  the  circular  arc  BP,  and  the  right  line  VP,  will  ••<
iSS   THE    MATHEMATICAL    PRINCIPLES   [BOOK    1.
the  same  as  of  the  lines  PV,  PF,  PG,  PI,  respectively.  But  since  VF  is
perpendicular  to  OF,  and  VH  to  CV,  and  therefore  the  angles  H

---

ence  two  bodies  attracting  each  other  with  forces  proportional
to  their  distance,  describe  (by  Prop.  X)  both  round  their  common  centre  ol
gravity,  and  round  each  other  mutually  concentrical  ellipses  ;  and,  vice
versa,  if  such  figures  are  described,  the  forces  are  proportional  to  the  dis
tances.
COR.  2.  And  two  bodies,  whose  forces  are  reciprocally  proportional  to
the  square  of  their  distance,  describe  (by  Prop.  XI,  XII,  XIII),  both  round
their  common  centre  of  gravity,  and  round  each  other  mutually,  conic  sec
tions  having  their  focus  in  the  centre  about  which  the  figures  are  described.
And,  vice  versa,  if  such  figures  are  described,  the  centripetal  forces  are  re
ciprocally  proportional  to  the  squares  of  the  distance.
COR.  3.  Any  two  bodies  revolving  round  their  common  centre  of  gravity
describe  areas  proportional  to  the  times,  by  radii  drawn  both  to  that  centre
and  to  each  other  mutually-
>EC.    XL]   OF    NATURAL    PHILOSOPHY.   197
PROPOSITION  LIX.     THEOREM  XXII.
The  periodic  time  of  two  bodies  S  and  P  revolving  round  their  common
centre  of  gravity  C,is  to  the  periodic  time  of  one  of  the  bwlies  1?  re
volving  round  the  other  S  remaining  unmoved,  and  describing  a  fig
ure  similar  and  equal  to  those  which  the  bodies  describe  about  each
other  mutually r,  in  a  subduplicate  ratio  of  the  other  body  S  to  the  sii/rn
of  the  bodies  S  -f  P.
For,  by  the  demonstration  of  the  last  Proposition,  the  times  in  which
any  similar  arcs  PQ  and  pq  are  described  are  in  a  subduplicate  ratio  of  the
distances  CP  and  SP,  or  sp,  that  is,  in  a  subduplicate  ratio  of  the  ody  S
to  the  sum  of  the  bodies  S  +  P.  And  by  composition  of  ratios,  the  sums
of  the  times  in  which  all  the  similar  arcs  PQ  and  pq  are  described,  that  is,
the  whole  times  in  which  the  whole  similar  figures  are  described  are  in  the
same  subduplicate  ratio.  Q.E.D.
PROPOSITION  LX.     THEOREM  XXIII.
If  two  bodies  S  and  P,  attracting  each  other  with  forces  reciprocally  pro
portional  to  the  squares  of  their  distance,  revolve  about  their  common
centre  of  gravity  ;  I  say,  that  the  principal  axis  of  the  ellipsis  which
either  of  the  bodies,  as  P,  describes  by  this  motion  about  the  other  S,
will  be  to  the  principal  axis  of  the  ellipsis,  which  the  same  body  P  may
describe  in  the  same  periodical  time  about  the  other  body  S  quiescent,
as  the  sum  of  the  two  bodies  S  +  P  to  the  first  of  two  mean,  propor
tionals  between  that  sum  and  the  other  body  S.
For  if  the  ellipses  described  were  equal  to  each  other,  their  periodic  times
by  the  last  Theorem  would  be  in  a  subduplicate  ratio  of  the  body  S  to  the
sum  of  the  bodies  S  4-  P.  Let  the  periodic  time  in  the  latter  ellipsis  be
diminished  in  that  ratio,  and  the  periodic  times  will  become  equal ;  but,
by  Prop.  XV,  the  principal  axis  of  the  ellipsis  will  be  diminished  in  a  ratio
sesquiplicate  to  the  former  ratio  ;  that  is,  in  a  ratio  to  which  the  ratio  of
S  to  S  4-  P  is  triplicate  ;  and  therefore  that  axis  will  be  to  the  principal
axis  of  the  other  ellipsis  as  the  first  of  two  mean  proportionals  between  S
-f-  P  and  S  to  S  4-  P.  And  inversely  the  principal  axis  of  the  ellipsis  de
scribed  about  the  movable  body  will  be  to  the  principal  axis  of  that  described
round  the  immovable  as  S  +  P  to  the  first  of  two  mean  proportionals  be
tween  S  4-  P  and  S.  Q.E.D.
PROPOSITION  LXI.    THEOREM  XXIV.
If  two  bodies  attracting  each  other  with  any  kind  of  forces,  and  not
otherwise  agitated  or  obstructed,  are  moved  in  any  manner  whatsoever,
those  'motions  will  be  the  same  as  if  they  did  not  at  all  attract  each
other  mutually,  but  were  both  attracted  with  the  same  forces  by  a  third
body  placed  in  their  common  centre  of  gravity  ;  and  the  law  of  the
198   THE    MATHEMATICAL    PRINCIPLES   [BOOK    I
attracting  Jones  will  be  the  sam#  in  respect  of  the  distance  of  the.
bodies  from,  the  common  centre,  as  in  respect  of  the  distance  between
the  two  bodies.
For  those  forces  with  which  the  bodies  attract  each  other  mutually,  by
tending  to  the  bodies,  tend  also  to  the  common  centre  of  gravity  lying  di
rectly  between  them  ;  and  therefore  are  the  same  as  if  they  proceeded  from
'an  intermediate  body.  QJG.D.
And  because  there  is  given  the  ratio  of  the  distance  of  either  body  from
that  common  centre  to  the  distance  between  the  two  bodies,  there  is  given,
of  course,  the  ratio  of  any  power  of  one  distance  to  the  same  power  of  the
.  ther  distance  ;  and  also  the  ratio  of  any  quantity  derived  in  any  manner
from  one  of  the  distances  compounded  any  how  with  given  quantities,  to
another  quantity  derived  in  like  manner  from  the  other  distance,  and  as
many  given  quantities  having  that  given  ratio  of  the  distances  to  the  first
Therefore  if  the  force  with  which  one  body  is  attracted  by  another  be  di
rectly  or  inversely  as  the  distance  of  the  bodies  from  each  other,  or  as  any
power  of  that  distance  ;  or,  lastly,  as  any  quantity  derived  after  any  man
ner  from  that  distance  compounded  with  given  q-uantities  ;  then  will  the
same  force  with  which  the  same  body  is  attracted  to  the  common  centre  of
gravity  be  in  like  manner  directly  or  inversely  as  the  distance  of  the  at
tracted  body  from  the  common  centre,  or  as  any  power  of  that  distance  ;
or,  lastly,  as  a  quantity  derived  in  like  sort  from  that  distance  compounded
with  analogous  given  quantities.  That  is,  the  law  of  attracting  force  will
be  the  same  with  respect  to  both  distances.  Q,.E.D.
PROPOSITION  LXII.     PROBLEM  XXXVIII.
To  determine  the  motions  of  two  bodies  which  attract  each  other  with
forces  reciprocally  proportional  to  the  squares  of  the  distance  between
them,  aflid  are,  let  fall  from  given  places.
The  bodies,  by  the  last  Theorem,  will  be  moved  in  the  same  manner  as
if  they  were  attracted  by  a  third  placed  in  the  common  centre  of  their
gravity  ;  and  by  the  hypothesis  that  centre  will  be  quiescent  at  the  begin
ning  of  their  motion,  and  therefore  (by  Cor.  4,  of  the  Laws  of  Motion)  will
be  always  quiescent.  The  motions  of  the  bodies  are  therefore  to  be  deter
mined  (by  Prob.  XXV)  in  the  same  manner  as  if  they  were  impelled  by
forces  tending  to  that  centre:  and  then  we  shall  have  the  motions  of  the
bodies  attracting  each  other  mutually.  Q.E.I.
PROPOSITION  LXIII.     PROBLEM  XXXIX.
To  determine  the  motions  of  two  bodies  attracting  each  other  with  forces
reciprocally  proportional  to  the  squares  of  their  distance,  and  going
off  from  given  places  in,  given  directions  with  given  velocities.
The  motions  of  the  bodies  at  the  beginning  being  given,  there  is  given
SEC.    XL]   OF    NATURAL    PHILOSOPHY.   1  %
also  the  uniform  motion  of  the  common  centre  of  gravity,  and  the  motion
of  the  space  which  moves  along  with  this  centre  uniformly  in  a  right  line,
and  also  the  very  first,  or  beginning  motions  of  the  bodies  in  respect  of  this
space.  Then  (by  Cor.  5,  of  the  Laws,  and  the  last  Theorem)  the  subse
quent  motions  will  be  performed  in  the  same  manner  in  that  space,  as  if
that  space  together  with  the  common  centre  of  gravity  were  at  rest,  and  as
if  the  bodies  did  not  attract  each  other,  but  were  attracted  by  a  third  body
placed  in  that  centre.  The  motion  therefore  in  this  movable  space  of  each
body  going  off  from  a  given  place,  in  a  given  direction,  with  a  given  velo
city,  and  acted  upon  by  a  centripetal  force  tending  to  that  centre,  is  to  be
determined  by  Prob.  IX  and  XXVI,  and  at  the  same  time  will  be  obtained
the  motion  of  the  other  round  the  same  centre.  With  this  motion  com
pound  the  uniform  progressive  motion  of  the  entire  system  of  the  space  and
the  bodies  revolving  in  it,  and  there  will  be  obtained  the  absolute  motion
of  the  bodies  in  immovable  space.  Q..E.I.
PROPOSITION  LXIV.     PROBLEM  XL.
Supposing  forces  with  which  bodies  mutually  attract  each  other  to  in
crease  in  a  simple  ratio  of  their  distances  from  the  centres  ;  it  is  ro-
quired  to  find  the  motions  of  several  bodies  among  themselves.
Suppose  the  first  two  bodies  T  and  L
to  have  their  common  centre  of  gravity  in
L).     These,  by  Cor.  1,  Theor.  XXI,  will  S
describe  ellipses  having  their  centres  in  D,
the   magnitudes    of    which    ellipses   are
known  by  Prob.  V.   J-    --    \-    ?  L
Let  now  a  third  body  S  attract  the  two
former  T  and  L  with  the  accelerative  forces  ST,  SL,  and  let  it  be  attract
ed  again  by  them.  The  force  ST  (by  Cor.  2,  of  the  Laws  of  Motion)  is
resolved  into  the  forces  SD,  DT  ;  and  the  force  SL  into  the  forces  SD  and
DL.  Now  the  forces  DT,  DL.  which  are  as  their  sum  TL,  and  therefore
as  the  accelerative  forces  with  which  the  bodies  T  and  L  attract  each  other
mutually,  added  to  the  forces  of  the  bodies  T  and  L,  the  first  to  the  first,
and  the  last  to  the  last,  compose  forces  proportional  to  the  distances  DT
and  DL  as  before,  but  only  greater  than  those  former  forces  :  and  there
fore  (by  Cor.  1,  Prop.  X,  and  Cor.  l,and  8,  Prop.  IV)  they  will  cause  those
bodies  to  describe  ellipses  as  before,  but  with  a  swifter  motion.  The  re
maining  accelerative  forces  SD  and  DL,  by  the  motive  forces  SD  X  Tand
SD  X  L,  which  are  as  the  bodies  attracting  those  bodies  equally  and  in  the
direction  of  the  lines  TI,  LK  parallel  to  DS,  do  not  at  all  change  their  situ
ations  with  respect  to  one  another,  but  cause  them  equally  to  approach  to
the  line  IK  ;  which  must  be  imagined  drawn  through  the  middle  of  the
body  S,  and  perpendicular  to  the  line  DS.  But  that  approach  to  the  line
200   THE    MATHEMATICAL    PRINCIPLES   [BoOK    I.
IK  will  be  hindered  by  causing  the  system  of  the  bodies  T  and  L  on  one
side,  and  the  body  S  on  the  other,  with  proper  velocities,  to  revolve  round
the  common  centre  of  gravity  C.  With  such  a  motion  the  body  S,  because
the  sum  of  the  motive  forces  SD  X  T  and  SD  X  L  is  proportional  to  the
distance  OS,  tends  to  the  centre  C,  will  describe  an  ellipsis  round  the  same
centre  C;  and  the  point  D,  because  the  lines  CS  and  CD  are  proportional,
will  describe  a  like  ellipsis  over  against  it.  But  the  bodies  T  and  L,  at
tracted  by  the  motive  forces  SD  X  T  and  SD  X  L,  the  first  by  the  first,
and  the  last  by  the  last,  equally  and  in  the  direction  of  the  parallel  lines  TI
and  LK,  as  was  said  before,  will  (by  Cor.  5  and  6,  of  the  Laws  of  Motion)
continue  to  describe  their  ellipses  round  the  movable  centre  D,  as  before.
Q.E.I.
Let  there  be  added  a  fourth  body  V,  and,  by  the  like  reasoning,  it  will
be  demonstrated  that  this  body  and  the  point  C  will  describe  ellipses  about
the  common  centre  of  gravity  B ;  the  motions  of  the  bodies  T,  L,  and  S
round  the  centres  D  and  C  remaining  the  same  as  before  ;  but  accelerated.
Arid  by  the  same  method  one  may  add  yet  more  bodies  at  pleasure.  Q..E.I.
^This  would  be  the  case,  though  the  bodies  T  and  L  attract  each  other
mutually  with  accelerative  forces  either  greater  or  less  than  those  with
which  they  attract  the  other  bodies  in  proportion  to  their  distance.  Let
all  the  mutual  accelerative  attractions  be  to  each  other  as  the  distances
multiplied  into  the  attracting  bodies  ;  and  from  what  has  gone  before  it
will  easily  be  concluded  that  all  the  bodies  will  describe  different  ellipses
with  equal  periodical  times  about  their  common  centre  of  gravity  B,  in  an
immovable  plane.  Q.E.I.
PROPOSITION  LXV.     THEOREM  XXV.
Bodies,  whose  forces  decrease  in  a  duplicate  ratio  of  their  distances  from
their  centres,  'may  move  among"  themselves  in  ellipses  ;  and  by  radii
drawn  to  the  foci  may  describe  areas  proportional  to  the  times  very
nearly.
In  the  last  Proposition  we  demonstrated  that  case  in  which  the  motions
will  be  performed  exactly  in  ellipses.  The  more  distant  the  law  of  the
forces  is  from  the  law  in  that  case,  the  more  will  the  bodies  disturb  each
other's  motions  ;  neither  is  it  possible  that  bodies  attracting  each  other
mutually  according  to  the  law  supposed  in  this  Proposition  should  move
exactly  in  ellipses,  unless  by  keepirg  a  certain  proportion  of  distances  from
each  other.  However,  in  the  following  crises  the  orbits  will  not  much  dif
fer  from  ellipses.
CASE  I.  Imagine  several  lesser  bodies  to  revolve  about  some  very  great
one  at  different  distances  from  it,  and  suppose  absolute  forces  tending  to
rvery  one  of  the  bodies  proportional  to  each.  And  because  (by  Cor.  4,  ol
the  I  aws)  the  common  centre  of  gravity  of  them  all  is  either  at  rest,  01
iSEC.     XL]   OF    NATURAL    PHILOSOPHY.   20  i
moves  uniformly  forward  in  a  right  line,  suppose  the  lesser  bodies  so  small
that  the  groat  body  may  be  never  at  a  sensible  distance  from  that  centre  ;
and  then  the  great  body  will,  without  any  sensible  error,  be  either  at  rest,
or  move  uniformly  forward  in  a  right  line;  and  the  lesser  will  revolve
about  that  great  one  in  ellipses,  and  by  radii  drawn  thereto  will  describe
areas  proportional  to  the  times  ;  if  we  except  the  errors  that  may  be  intro
duced  by  the  receding  of  the  great  body  from  the  common  centre  of  gravity,
or  by  the  mutual  actions  of  the  lesser  bodies  upon  each  other.  But  the
lesser  bodies  may  be  so  far  diminished,  as  that  this  recess  and  the  mutual
actions  of  the  bodies  on  each  other  may  become  less  than  any  assignable;
and  therefore  so  as  that  the  orbits  may  become  ellipses,  and  the  areas  an
swer  to  the  times,  without  any  error  that  is  not  less  than  any  assignable.
Q.E.O.
CASE  2.  Let  us  imagine  a  system  of  lesser  bodies  revolving  about  a  very
great  one  in  the  manner  just  described,  or  any  other  system  of  two  bodies
revolving  about  each  other  to  be  moving  uniformly  forward  in  a  right  line,  and
in  the  mean  time  to  be  impelled  sideways  by  the  force  of  another  vastly  greater
body  situate  at  a  great  distance.  And  because  the  equal  accelerative  forces
with  which  the  bodies  are  impelled  in  parallel  directions  do  not  change  the
situation  of  the  bodies  with  respect  to  each  other,  but  only  oblige  the  whole
system  to  change  its  place  while  the  parts  still  retain  their  motions  among
themselves,  it  is  manifest  that  no  change  in  those  motions  of  the  attracted
bodies  can  arise  from  their  attractions  towards  the  greater,  unless  by  the
inequality  of  the  accelerative  attractions,  or  by  the  inclinations  of  the  lines
towards  each  other,  in  whose  directions  the  attractions  are  made.  Suppose,
therefore,  all  the  accelerative  attractions  made  towards  the  great  body
to  be  among  themselves  as  the  squares  of  the  distances  reciprocally  ;  and
then,  by  increasing  the  distance  of  the  great  body  till  the  differences  of  fhe
right  lines  drawn  from  that  to  the  others  in  respect  of  their  length,  and  the
inclinations  of  those  lines  to  each  other,  be  less  than  any  given,  the  mo
tions  of  the  parts  of  the  system  will  continue  without  errors  that  are  not
less  than  any  given.  And  because,  by  the  small  distance  of  those  parts  from
each  other,  the  whole  system  is  attracted  as  if  it  were  but  one  body,  it  will
therefore  be  moved  by  this  attraction  as  if  it  were  one  body  ;  that  is,  its
centre  of  gravity  will  describe  about  the  great  bod/  one  of  the  conic  sec
tions  (that  is,  a  parabola  or  hyperbola  when  the  attraction  is  but  languid
and  an  ellipsis  when  it  is  more  vigorous)  ;  and  by  radii  drawn  thereto,  it
will  describe  areas  proportional  to  the  times,  without  any  errors  but  thos«
which  arise  from  the  distances  of  the  parts,  which  are  by  the  supposition
exceedingly  small,  and  may  be  diminished  at  pleasure.  Q,.E.O.
By  a  like  reasoning  one  may  proceed  to  more  compounded  cases  in  in-
finitum.
COR  1.  In  the  second  Case,  the  nearer  the  very  great  body  approaches  to
^0'^   THE    MATHEMATICAL    PRINCIPLES   [CoOK    I
the  system  of  two  or  more  revolving  bodies,  the  greater  will  the  pertur
bation  be  of  the  motions  of  the  parts  of  the  system  among  themselves;  be
cause  the  inclinations  of  the  lines  drawn  from  that  great  body  to  those
parts  become  greater  ;  and  the  inequality  of  the  proportion  is  also  greater.
COR.  2.  But  the  perturbation  will  be  greatest  of  all,  if  we  suppose  the
uccelerative  attractions  of  the  parts  of  the  system  towards  the  greatest  body
of  all  are  not  to  each  other  reciprocally  as  the  squares  of  the  distances
from  that  great  body ;  especially  if  the  inequality  of  this  proportion  be
greater  than  the  inequality  of  the  proportion  of  the  distances  from  the
great  body.  For  if  the  accelerative  force,  acting  in  parallel  directions
and  equally,  causes  no  perturbation  in  the  motions  of  the  parts  of  the
system,  it  must  of  course,  when  it  acts  unequally,  cause  a  perturbation  some
where,  which  will  be  greater  or  less  as  the  inequality  is  greater  or  less.
The  excess  of  the  greater  impulses  acting  upon  some  bodies,  and  not  acting
upon  others,  must  necessarily  change  their  situation  among  themselves.  And
this  perturbation,  added  to  the  perturbation  arising  from  the  inequality
and  inclination  of  the  lines,  makes  the  whole  perturbation  greater.
COR.  '*.  Hence  if  the  parts  of  this  system  move  in  ellipses  or  circles
without  any  remarkable  perturbation,  it  is  manifest  that,  if  they  are  at  all
impelled  by  accelerative  forces  tending  to  any  other  bodies,  the  impulse  is
very  weak,  or  else  is  impressed  very  near  equally  and  in  parallel  directions
upon  all  of  them.
PROPOSITION  LXVL     THEOREM  XXVI.
Tf  three  bodies  whose  forces  decrease  in  a  duplicate  ratio  of  the  distances
attract  each  other  mutually  ;  and  the  accelerative  attractions  of  any
two  towards  the  third  be  between  themselves  reciprocally  as  the  squares,
of  the  distances  ;  and  the  two  least  revolve  about  the  greatest ;  I  say,
that  the  interior  of  the  tivo  revolving  bodies  will,  by  radii  drawn  to  the
innermost  and  greatest,  describe  round  thai  body  areas  more  propor
tional  to  the  times,  and  a  figure  more  approaching  to  that  of  an  ellip
sis  having  its  focus  in  the  point  of  concourse  of  the  radii,  if  that  great
body  be  agitated  by  those  attractions,  than  it  would  do  if  lhat  great
body  were  not  attracted  at  all  by  the  lesser,  but  remained  at  rest ;  or
than  it  would  if  that  great  body  were  very  much  more  or  very  much
less  attracted,  <>r  very  much  more  or  very  much  less  agitated,  by  the
attractions.
This  appears  plainly  enough  from  the  demonstration  of  the  second
Corollary  of  tl.e  foregoing  Proposition;  but  it  may  be  made  out   after
this  manner  by  a  way  of  reasoning  more  distinct  and  more  universally
convincing.
CASE  1.  Let  the  lesser  bodies  P  and  S  revolve  in  the  same  plane  about
the  greatest  body  T,  the  body  P  describing  the  interior  orbit  PAB,  and  S
SEC.    XI.J   OF    NATURAL    PHILOSOPHY.   203
the  exterior  orbit  ESE.     Let  SK  be  the  mean  distance  of  the  bodies  P  and
S ;  and  let  the  accelerative  attraction  of  the  body  P  towards  S,  at  that
mean  distance,  be  expressed  by  that  line  SK.     Make  SL  to   SK  as  the E   C
square  of  SK  to  the  square  of  SP,  and  SL  will  be  the  accelerative  attrac
tion  of  the  body  P  towards  S  at  any  distance  SP.  Join  PT,  and  draw
LM  parallel  to  it  meeting  ST  in  M;  and  the  attraction  SL  will  be  resolv
ed  (by  Cor.  2.  of  the  Laws  of  Motion)  into  the  attractions  SM,  LM.  And
so  the  body  P  will  be  urged  with  a  threefold  accelerative  force.  One  of
these  forces  tends  towards  T,  and  arises  from  the  mutual  attraction  of  the
bodies  T  and  P.  By  this  force  alone  the  body  P  would  describe  round  the
body  T,  by  the  radius  PT,  areas  proportional  to  the  times,  and  an
ellipsis  whose  focus  is  in  the  centre  of  the  body  T  ;  and  this  it  would  do
whether  the  body  T  remained  unmoved,  or  whether  it  were  agitated  by  that
attraction.  This  appears  from  Prop.  XI,  and  Cor.  2  and  3  of  Theor.
XXI.  The  other  force  is  that  of  the  attraction  LM,  which,  because  it
tends  from  P  to  T,  will  be  superadded  to  and  coincide  with  the  former
force ;  and  cause  the  areas  to  be  still  proportional  to  the  times,  by  Cor.  3,
Theor.  XXI.  But  because  it  is  not  reciprocally  proportional  to  the  square
of  the  distance  PT,  it  will  compose,  when  added  to  the  former,  a  force
varying  from  that  proportion  :  which  variation  will  be  the  greater  by  how
much  the  proportion  of  this  force  to  the  former  is  greater,  cceteris  paribus.
Therefore,  since  by  Prop.  XI,  and  by  Cor.  2,  Theor.  XXI,  the  force  with
which  the  ellipsis  is  described  about  the  focus  T  ought  to  be  directed  to
that  focus,  and  to  be  reciprocally  proportional  to  the  square  of  the  distance
PT,  that  compounded  force  varying  from  that  proportion  will  make  the
orbit  PAB  vary  from  the  figure  of  an  ellipsis  that  has  its  focus  in  the  point
'I1 ;  and  so  much  the  more  by  how  much  the  variation  from  that  proportion
is  greater ;  and  by  consequence  by  how  much  the  proportion  of  the  second
force  LM  to  the  first  force  is  greater,  cceteris  paribus.  But  now  the  third
force  SM,  attracting  the  body  P  in  a  direction  parallel  to  ST,  composes  with
the  other  forces  a  new  force  which  is  no  longer  directed  from  P  to  T :  and  which
varies  so  much  more  from  this  direction  by  how  much  the  proportion  of  this
third  force  to  the  other  forces  is  greater,  cceteris  paribus  ;  arid  therefore  causes
the  body  P  to  describe,  by  the  radius  TP,  areas  no  longer  proportional  to  the
times :  and  therefore  makes  the  variation  from  that  proportionality  so  much
greater  by  how  much  the  proportion  of  this  force  to  the  others  is  greater.
But  this  third  force  will  increase  the  variation  of  the  orbit  PAB  from  th*
THE    MATHEMATICAL    PRINCIPLES   [BOOK    1
elliptical  figure  before-mentioned  upon  two  accounts  ;  first  because  that
force  is  not  directed  from  P  to  T  ;  and,  secondly,  because  it  is  not  recipro
cally  proportional  to  the  square  of  the  distance  PT.  These  things  being
premised,  it  is  manifest  that  the  areas  are  then  most  nearly  proportional  to
the  times,  when  that  third  force  is  the  least  possible,  the  rest  preserving
their  former  quantity  ;  and  that  the  orbit  PAB  does  then  approach  nearest
to  the  elliptical  figure  above-mentioned,  when  both  the  second  and  third,
but  especially  the  third  force,  is  the  least  possible;  the  first  force  remain
ing  in  its  former  quantity.
Let  the  accelerative  attraction  of  the  body  T  towards  S  be  expressed  by
the  line  SN  ;  then  if  the  accelerative  attractions  SM  and  SN  were  equal,
these,  attracting  the  bodies  T  and  P  equally  and  in  parallel  directions
would  not  at  all  change  their  situation  with  respect  to  each  other.  The  mo
tions  of  the  bodies  between  themselves  would  be  the  same  in  that  case  as  if
those  attractions  did  not  act  at  all,  by  Cor.  6,  of  the  Laws  of  Motion.  And,
by  a  like  reasoning,  if  the  attraction  SN  is  less  than  the  attraction  SM,  it
will  take  away  out  of  the  attraction  SM  the  part  SN,  so  that  there  will  re
main  only  the  part  (of  the  attraction)  MN  to  disturb  the  proportionality  of
the  areas  and  times,  and  the  elliptical  figure  of  the  orbit.  And  in  like
manner  if  the  attraction  SN  be  greater  than  the  attraction  SM,  the  pertur
bation  of  the  orbit  and  proportion  will  be  produced  by  the  difference  MN
alone.  After  this  manner  the  attraction  SN  reduces  always  the  attraction
SM  to  the  attraction  MN,  the  first  and  second  attractions  rema  ning  per
fectly  unchanged  ;  and  therefore  the  areas  and  times  come  then  nearest  to
proportionality,  and  the  orbit  PAB  to  the  above-mentioned  elliptical  figure,
when  the  attraction  MN  is  either  none,  or  the  least  that  is  possible;  that
is,  when  the  accelerative  attractions  of  the  bodies  P  and  T  approach  as  near
as  possible  to  equality ;  that  is,  when  the  attraction  SN  is  neither  none  at
all,  nor  less  than  the  least  of  all  the  attractions  SM,  but  is,  as  it  were,  a
mean  between  the  greatest  and  least  of  all  those  attractions  SM,  that  is,
not  much  greater  nor  much  less  than  the  attraction  SK.  Q.E.D.
CASE  2.  Let  now  the  lesser  bodies  P.  S,  revolve  about  a  greater  T  in  dif
ferent  planes ;  and  the  force  LM,  acting  in  the  direction  of  the  line  PT
situate  in  the  plane  of  the  orbit  PAB,  will  have  the  same  effect  as  before  ;
neither  will  it  draw  the  body  P  from  the  plane  of  its  orbit.  But  the  other
force  NM  acting  in  the  direction  of  a  line  parallel  to  ST  (and  which,  there
fore,  when  the  body  S  is  without  the  line  of  the  nodes  is  inclined  to  the
plane  of  the  orbit  PAB),  besides  the  perturbation  of  the  motion  just  now
spoken  of  as  to  longitude,  introduces  another  perturbation  also  as  to  latitude,
attracting  the  body  P  out  of  the  plane  of  its  orbit.  And  this  perturbation,
in  any  given  situation  of  the  bodies  P  and  T  to  each  other,  will  be  as  the
generating  force  MN  ;  and  therefore  becomes  least  when  the  force  MN  is
least,  that  is  (as  was  just  now  shewn),  where  the  attraction  SN  is  not  nrirb
greater  nor  much  less  than  the  attraction  SK.  Q.E.D.
SK-C.  XL]   OF  NATURAL  PHILOSOPHY.   205
COR.  1.  Hence  it  may  be  easily  collected,  that  if  several  less  bodies  P
8,  R,  &c.;  revolve  about  a  very  great  body  T,  the  motion  of  the  innermost
revolving  body  P  will  be  least  disturbed  by  the  attractions  of  the  others.
when  the  great  body  is  as  well  attracted  and  agitated  by  the  rest  (accord
ing  to  the  ratio  of  the  accelerative  forces)  as  the  rest  are  by  each  other
mutually.
COR.  2.  In  a  system  of  three  bodies,  T,  P,  S,  if  the  accelerative  attrac
tions  of  any  two  of  them  towards  a  third  be  to  each  other  reciprocally  as  the
squares  of  the  distances,  the  body  P,  by  the  radius  PT,  will  describe  its  area
about  the  body  T  swifter  near  the  conjunction  A  and  the  opposition  B  than  it
will  near  the  quadratures  C  arid  D.  For  every  force  with  which  the  body  P
is  acted  on  and  the  body  T  is  not,  and  which  does  not  act  in  the  direction  of
the  line  PT,  does  either  accelerate  or  retard  the  description  of  the  area,
according  as  it  is  directed,  whether  in  consequentia  or  in  cwtecedentia.
Such  is  the  force  NM.  This  force  in  the  passage  of  the  body  P  frcm  C
to  A  is  directed  in  consequentia  to  its  motion,  and  therefore  accelerates
it;  then  as  far  as  D  in  atttecedentia,  and  retards  the  motion;  then  in,  con
sequentia  as  far  as  B  ;  and  lastly  in  antecedentia  as  it  moves  from  B  to  C.
COR.  3.  And  from  the  same  reasoning  it  appears  that  the  body  P  ccBteris
paribuSj  moves  more  swiftly  in  the  conjunction  and  opposition  than  in  the
quadratures.
COR.  4.  The  orbit  of  the  body  P,  cc&teris  paribus,  is  more  curve  at  the
quadratures  than  at  the  conjunction  and  opposition.  For  the  swifter
bodies  move,  the  less  they  deflect  from  a  rectilinear  path.  And  besides  the
force  KL,  or  NM,  at  the  conjunction  and  opposition,  is  contrary  to  the
force  with  which  the  body  T  attracts  the  body  P,  and  therefore  diminishes
that  force ;  but  the  body  P  will  deflect  the  less  from  a  rectilinear  path  the
less  it  is  impelled  towards  the  body  T.
COR.  5.  Hence  the  body  P,  cceteris  paribus,  goes  farther  from  the  body
T  at  the  quadratures  than  at  the  conjunction  and  opposition.     This  is  said, E   C_   L
B
however,  supposing  no  regard  had  to  the  motion  of  eccentricity.  For  if
the  orbit  of  the  body  P  be  eccentrical,  its  eccentricity  (as  will  be  shewn
presently  by  Cor.  9)  will  be  greatest  when  the  apsides  are  in  the  syzy-
gies;  and  thence  it  may  sometimes  come  to  pass  that  the  body  P.  in  its
near  approach  to  the  farther  apsis,  may  go  farther  from  the  body  T  at  the
syzygies  than  at  the  quadratures.
COR.  6.  Because  the  centripetal  force  of  the  central  body  T,  by  which
206   THE    MATHEMATICAL    PRINCIPLES   [BOOK.    1
the  body  P  is  retained  in  its  orbit,  is  increased  at  the  quadratures  by  tho
addition  caused  by  the  force  LM,  and  diminished  at  the  syzygies  by  the
subduction  caused  by  the  force  KL,  and,  because  the  force  KL  is  greater
than  LM,  it  is  more  diminished  than  increased  ;  and,  moreover,  since  that
centripetal  force  (by  Cor.  2,  Prop.  IV)  is  in  a  ratio  compounded  of  the  sim
ple  ratio  of  the  radius  TP  directly,  and  the  duplicate  ratio  of  the  periodi
cal  time  inversely ;  it  is  plain  that  this  compounded  ratio  is  diminished  by
the  action  of  the  force  KL  ;  and  therefore  that  the  periodical  time,  supposing
the  radius  of  the  orbit  PT  to  remain  the  same,  will  be  increased,  and  that
in  the  subduplicate  of  that  ratio  in  which  the  centripetal  force  is  diminish
ed  ;  and,  therefore,  supposing  this  radius  increased  or  diminished,  the  peri
odical  time  will  be  increased  more  or  diminished  less  than  in  the  sesquipli-
cate  ratio  of  this  radius,  by  Cor.  6,  Prop.  IV.  If  that  force  of  the  central
body  should  gradually  decay,  the  body  P  being  less  and  less  attracted  would
go  farther  and  farther  from  the  centre  T ;  and,  on  the  contrary,  if  it  were
increased,  it  would  draw  nearer  to  it.  Therefore  if  the  action  of  the  distant
body  S,  by  which  that  force  is  diminished,  were  to  increase  and  decrease
by  turns,  the  radius  TP  will  be  also  increased  and  diminshed  by  turns  ;
and  the  periodical  time  will  be  increased  and  diminished  in  a  ratio  com
pounded  of  the  sesquiplicate 

---

 ratio  of  the  radius,  and  of  the  subduplicate  oi
that  ratio  in  which  the  centripetal  force  of  the  central  body  T  is  dimin
ished  or  increased,  by  the  increase  or  decrease  of  the  action  of  the  distant
body  S.
COR.  7.  It  also  follows,  from  what  was  before  laid  down,  that  the  axis
of  the  ellipsis  described  by  the  body  P,  or  the  line  of  the  apsides,  does  as
to  its  angular  motion  go  forwards  and  backwards  by  turns,  but  more  for
wards  than  backwards,  and  by  the  excess  of  its  direct  motion  is  in  the
whole  carried  forwards.  For  the  force  with  which  the  body  P  is  urged  to
the  body  T  at  the  quadratures,  where  the  force  MN  vanishes,  is  compound
ed  of  the  force  LM  and  the  centripetal  force  with  which  the  body  T  at
tracts  the  body  P.  The  first  force  LM,  if  the  distance  PT  be  increased,  is
increased  in  nearly  the  same  proportion  with  that  distance,  and  the  other
force  decreases  in  the  duplicate  ratio  of  the  distance  ;  and  therefore  the
sum  of  these  two  forces  decreases  in  a  less  than  the  duplicate  ratio  of  the
distance  PT  ;  and  therefore,  by  Cor.  1,  Prop.  XLV,  will  make  the  line  of
the  apsides,  or,  which  is  the  same  thing,  the  upper  apsis,  to  go  backward.
But  at  the  conjunction  and  opposition  the  force  with  which  the  body  P  is
urged  towards  the  body  T  is  the  difference  of  the  force  KL,  and  of  the
force  with  which  the  body  T  attracts  the  body  P  ;  and  that  difference,  be
cause  the  force  KL  is  very  nearly  increased  in  the  ratio  of  the  distance
PT,  decreases  in  more -than  the  duplicate  ratio  of  the  distance  PT  ;  and
therefore,  by'  Cor.  1,  Prop.  XLV,  causes  the  line  of  the  apsides  to  go  for
wards.  In  the  places  between  the  syzygies  and  the  quadratures,  the  motion
SEC.    Xl.J   OF    NATURAL    PHILOSOPHY.   207
of  the  line  of  the  apsides  depends  upon  both  <  f  these  causes  conjuncdy,  so
that  it  either  goes  forwards  or  backwards  in  proportion  to  the  excess  ol
one  of  these  causes  above  the  other.  Therefore  since  the  force  KL  in  the
syzygies  is  almost  twice  as  great  as  the  force  LM  in  the  quadratures,  the
excess  will  be  on  the  side  of  the  force  KL,  and  by  consequence  the  line  of
the  apsides  will  be  carried  forwards.  The  truth  of  this  arid  the  foregoing
IE
Corollary  will  be  more  easily  understood  by  conceiving  the  system  of  the
two  bodies  T  and  P  to  be  surrounded  on  every  side  by  several  bodies  S,
S,  S,  dec.,  disposed  about  the  orbit  ESE.  For  by  the  actions  of  these  bo
dies  the  action  of  the  body  T  will  be  diminished  on  every  side,  and  decrease
in  more  than  a  duplicate  ratio  of  the  distance.
COR.  8.  IJut  since  the  progress  or  regress  of  the  apsides  depends  upon
the  decrease  of  the  centripetal  force,  that  is,  upon  its  being  in  a  greater  or
less  ratio  than  the  duplicate  ratio  of  the  distance  TP,  in  the  passage  of
the  body  from  the  lower  apsis  to  the  upper  ;  and  upon  a  like  increase  in
its  return  to  the  lower  apsis  again  ;  and  therefore  becomes  greatest  where
the  proportion  of  the  force  at  the  upper  apsis  to  the  force  at  the  lower  ap
sis  recedes  farthest  from  the  duplicate  ratio  of  the  distances  inversely  ;  it
is  plain,  that,  when  the  apsides  are  in  the  syzygies,  they  will,  by  reason  of
the  subducting  force  KL  or  NM  —  LM,  go  forward  more  swiftly  ;  and  in
the  quadratures  by  the  additional  force  LM  go  backward  more  slowly.
Because  the  velocity  of  the  progress  or  slowness  of  the  regress  is  continued
for  a  long  time  ;  this  inequality  becomes  exceedingly  great.
COR.  9.  If  a  body  is  obliged,  by  a  force  reciprocally  proportional  to  the
square  of  its  distance  from  any  centre,  to  revolve  in  an  ellipsis  round  that
centre  ;  and  afterwards  in  its  descent  from  the  upper  apsis  to  the  lower
apsis,  that  force  by  a  perpetual  accession  of  new  force  is  increased  in  more
than  a  duplicate  ratio  of  the  diminished  distance  ;  it  is  manifest  that  the
body,  being  impelled  always  towards  the  centre  by  the  perpetual  accession
of  this  new  force,  will  incline  more  towards  that  centre  than  if  it  were
urged  by  that  force  alone  which  decreases  in  a  duplicate  ratio  of  the  di
minished  distance,  and  therefore  will  describe  an  orbit  interior  to  that
elliptical  orbit,  and  at  the  lower  apsis  approaching  nearer  to  the  centre
than  before.  Therefore  the  orbit  by  the  accession  of  this  new  force  will
become  more  eccentrical.  If  now,  while  the  body  is  returning  from  the
lower  to  the  upper  apsis,  it  should  decrease  by  the  same  degrees  by  which
it  increases  before  the  body  would  return  to  its  first  distance;  and  there-
THE    MATHEMATICAL    PRINCIPLES   [BOOK    I.
fore  if  the  force  decreases  in  a  yet  greater  ratio,  the  body,  being  now  less
attracted  than  before,  will  ascend  to  a  still  greater  distance,  and  so  the  ec
centricity  of  the  orbit  will  be  increased  still  more.  Therefore  if  the  ratio
of  the  increase  and  decrease  of  the  centripetal  force  be  augmented  each
revolution,  the  eccentricity  will  be  augmented  also ;  and,  on  the  contrary,
if  that  ratio  decrease,  it  will  be  diminished.
Now,  therefore,  in  the  system  of  the  bodies  T,  P,  S,  when  the  apsides  of
the  orbit  FAB  are  in  the  quadratures,  the  ratio  of  that  increase  and  de
crease  is  least  of  all,  and  becomes  greatest  when  the  apsides  are  in  the
syzygies.  If  the  apsides  are  placed  in  the  quadratures,  the  ratio  near  the
apsides  is  less,  and  near  the  syzygies  greater,  than  the  duplicate  ratio  of  the
distances  :  and  from  that  Greater  ratio  arises  a  direct  motion  of  the  line  of 7   o
the  apsides,  as  was  just  now  said.  But  if  we  consider  the  ratio  of  the
whole  increase  or  decrease  in  the  progress  between  the  apsides,  this  is  less
than  the  duplicate  ratio  of  the  distances.  The  force  in  the  lower  is  to  the
force  in  the  upper  apsis  in  less  than  a  duplicate  ratio  of  the  distance  of  the
upper  apsis  from  the  focus  of  the  ellipsis  to  the  distance  of  the  lower  apsis
from  the  same  focus  ;  and,  contrariwise,  when  the  apsides  are  placed  in  the
syzygies,  the  force  in  the  lower  apsis  is  to  the  force  in  the  upper  apsis  in  a
greater  than  a  duplicate  ratio  of  the  distances.  For  the  forces  LM  in  the
quadratures  added  to  the  forces  of  the  body  T  compose  forces  in  a  less  ra
tio  ;  and  the  forces  KL  in  the  syzygies  subducted  from  the  forces  of  the
body  T,  leave  the  forces  in  a  greater  ratio.  Therefore  the  ratio  of  the
whole  increase  and  decrease  in  the  passage  between  the  apsides  is  least  at
the  quadratures  and  greatest  at  the  syzygies ;  and  therefore  in  the  passage
of  the  apsides  from  the  quadratures  to  the  syzygies  it  is  continually  aug
mented,  and  increases  the  eccentricity  of  the  ellipsis ;  and  in  the  passage
from  the  syzygies  to  the  quadratures  it  is  perpetually  decreasing,  and  di
minishes  the  eccentricity.
COR.  10.  That  we  may  give  an  account  of  the  errors  as  to  latitude,  let
us  suppose  the  plane  of  the  orbit  EST  to  remain  immovable;  and  from
the  cause  of  the  errors  above  explained,  it  is  manifest,  that,  of  the  two
forces  NM,  ML,  which  are  the  only  and  entire  cause  of  them,  the  force
ML  acting  always  in  the  plane  of  the  orbit  PAB  never  disturbs  the  mo
tions  as  to  latitude  ;  and  that  the  force  NM,  when  the  nodes  are  in  the
gyzygies,  acting  also  in  the  same  plane  of  the  orbit,  does  not  at  that  time
affect  those  motions.  But  when  the  nodes  are  in  the  quadratures,  it  dis
turbs  tliem  very  much,  and,  attracting  the  body  P  perpetually  out  of  the
plane  of  its  orbit,  it  diminishes  the  inclination  of  the  plane  in  the  passage
of  the  body  from  the  quadratures  to  the  syzygies,  and  again  increases  the
same  in  the  passage  from  the  syzygies  to  the  quadratures.  Hence  it
comes  to  pass  that  when  the  body  is  in  the  syzygies,  the  inclination  is
then  least  of  all,  and  returns  to  the  first  magnitude  nearly,  when  the  body
SEC.  XL]   OF  NATURAL  PHILOSOPHY.   209
arrives  at  the  next  node.     But  if  the  nodes  are  situate  at  the  octants  after
the  quadratures,  that  is,  between  C  and  A,  D  and  B,  it  will  appear,  from ii   C   L
E
wnat  was  just  now  shewn,  that  in  the  passage  of  the  body  P  from  either
node  to  the  ninetieth  degree  from  thence,  the  inclination  of  the  plane  is
perpetually  diminished  ;  then,  in  the  passage  through  the  next  45  degrees
to  the  next  quadrature,  the  inclination  is  increased  ;  and  afterwards,  again,
in  its  passage  through  another  45  degrees  to  the  next  node,  it  is  dimin
ished.  Therefore  the  inclination  is  more  diminished  than  increased,  and
is  therefore  always  less  in  the  subsequent  node  than  in  the  preceding  one.
And,  by  a  like  reasoning,  the  inclination  is  more  increased  than  diminish
ed  when  the  nodes  are  in  the  other  octants  between  A  and  D,  B  and  C.
The  inclination,  therefore,  is  the  greatest  of  all  when  the  nodes  are  in  the
syzygies  In  their  passage  from  the  syzygies  to  the  quadratures  the  incli
nation  is  diminished  at  each  appulse  of  the  body  to  the  nodes  :  and  be
comes  least  of  all  when  the  nodes  are  in  the  quadratures,  and  the  body  in
the  syzygies  ;  then  it  increases  by  the  same  degrees  by  which  it  decreased
before  ;  and,  when  the  nodes  come  to  the  next  syzygies,  returns  to  its
former  magnitude.
COR.  11.  Because  when  the  nodes  are  in  the  quadratures  the  body  P  is
perpetually  attracted  from  the  plane  of  its  orbit  ;  and  because  this  attrac
tion  is  made  towards  S  in  its  passage  from  the  node  C  through  the  con
junction  A  to  the  node  D  ;  and  to  the  contrary  part  in  its  passage  from  the
node  D  through  the  opposition  B  to  the  node  C;  it  is  manifest  that,  in  its
motion  from  the  node  C,  the  body  recedes  continually  from  the  former
plane  CD  of  its  orbit  till  it  comes  to  the  next  node;  and  therefore  at  that
node,  being  now  at  its  greatest  distance  from  the  first  plane  CD,  it  will
pass  through  the  plane  of  the  orbit  EST  not  in  D,  the  other  node  of  that
plane,  but  in  a  point  that  lies  nearer  to  the  body  S,  which  therefore  be
comes  a  new  place  of  the  node  in,  antecedent ia  to  its  former  place.  And,
by  a  like  reasoning,  the  nodes  will  continue  to  recede  in  their  passage
from  this  node  to  the  next.  The  nodes,  therefore,  when  situate  in  the
quadratures,  recede  perpetually  ;  and  at  the  syzygies,  where  no  perturba
tion  can  be  produced  in  the  motion  as  to  latitude,  are  quiescent :  in  the  in
termediate  places  they  partake  of  both  conditions,  and  recede  more  slowly  ;
and,  therefore,  being  always  either  retrograde  or  stationary,  they  will  be
carried  backwards,  or  in  atitecedentia,  each  revolution.
COR.  12.  All  the  errors  described  in  these  corrollaries  arc  a  little  greater 14
210   THE    MATHEMATICAL    PRINCIPLES   BOOK    L
at  the  conjunction  of  the  bodies  P,  S,  than  at  their  opposition  ;  because
the  generating  forces  NM  and  ML  are  greater.
COR.  13.  And  since  the  causes  and  proportions  of  the  errors  and  varia
tions  mentioned  in  these  Corollaries  do  not  depend  upon  the  magnitude  of
the  body  S,  it  follows  that  all  things  before  demonstrated  will  happen,  if
the  magnitude  of  the  body  S  be  imagined  so  great  as  that  the  system  of  the
two  bodies  P  and  T  may  revolve  about  it.  And  from  this  increase  of  the
body  S,  and  the  consequent  increase  of  its  centripetal  force,  from  which  the
errors  of  the  body  P  arise,  it  will  follow  that  all  these  errors,  at  equal  dis
tances,  will  be  greater  in  this  case,  than  in  the  other  where  the  body  S  re
volves  about  the  system  of  the  bodies  P  and  T.
COR.  14.  But  since  the  forces  NM,  ML,  when  the  body  S  is  exceedingly
distant,  are  very  nearly  as  the  force  SK  and  the  ratio  PT  to  ST  con-
junctly  ;  that  is,  if  both  the  distance  PT,  and  the  absolute  force  of  the  body
8  be  given,  as  ST3  reciprocally  :  and  since  those  forces  NM,  ML  are  the
causes  of  all  the  errors  and  effects  treated  of  in  the  foregoing  Corollaries;
it  is  manifest  that  all  those  effects,  if  the  system  of  bodies  T  and  P  con
tinue  as  before,  and  only  the  distance  ST  and  the  absolute  force  of  the  body
S  be  changed,  will  be  very  nearly  in  a  ratio  compounded  of  the  direct  ratio
of  the  absolute  force  of  the  body  S,  and  the  triplicate  inverse  ratio  of  the
distance  ST.  Hence  if  the  system  of  bodies  T  and  P  revolve  about  a  dis
tant  body  S,  those  forces  NM,  ML,  and  their  eifl  ts,  will  be  (by  Cor.  2  and
6,  Prop  IV)  reciprocally  in  a  duplicate  ratio  c/f  the  periodical  time.  And
thence,  also,  if  the  magnitude  of  the  bodv  S  be  proportional  to  its  absolute
force,  those  forces  NM,  ML,  and  their  effects,  will  be  directly  as  the  cube
of  the  apparent  diameter  of  the  distant  body  S  viewed  from  T,  and  so  vice
versa.  For  these  ratios  are  the  same  as  the  compounded  ratio  above  men
tioned.
COR.  15.  And  because  if  the  orbits  ESE  and  PAB,  retaining  their  fig
ure,  proportions,  and  inclination  to  each  other,  should  alter  their  magni
tude  ;  arid  the  forces  of  the  bodies  S  and  T  should  either  remain,  or  be
changed  in  any  given  ratio  ;  these  forces  (that  is,  the  force  of  the  body  T,
which  obliges  the  body  P  to  deflect  from  a  rectilinear  course  into  the  orbit
PAB,  and  the  force  of  the  body  S,  which  causes  the  body  P  to  deviate  from
that  orbit)  would  act  always  in  the  same  manner,  and  in  the  same  propor
tion  :  it  follows,  that  all  the  effects  will  be  similar  and  proportional,  arid
the  times  of  those  effects  proportional  also  ;  that  is,  that  all  the  linear  er
rors  will  be  as  tne  diameters  of  the  orbits,  the  angular  errors  the  same  as
before  ;  and  the  times  of  similar  linear  errors,  or  equal  angular  errors?  as
the  periodical  times  of  the  orbits.
COR.  16.  Therefore  if  the  figures  of  the  orbits  and  their  inclination  to
each  other  be  given,  and  the  magnitudes,  forces,  arid  distances  of  the  bodies
he  any  how  changed,  we  may.  from  the  errors  and  times  of  those  errors  in
SEC.    XI.]   OF    NATURAL    PHILOSOPHY.   2 \\
one  case,  collect  very  nearly  the  errors  and  times  of  the  errors  in  any  other
case.  But  this  may  be  done  more  expeditiously  by  the  following  method.
The  forces  NM;  ML,  other  things  remaining  unaltered,  are  as  the  radius
TP  ;  and  their  periodical  effects  (by  Cor.  2,  Lein.  X)  are  as  the  forces  and
the  square  of  the  periodical  time  of  the  body  P  conjunctly.  These  are  the
linear  errors  of  the  body  P  ;  and  hence  the  angular  errors  as  they  appear
from  the  centre  T  (that  is,  the  motion  of  the  apsides  and  of  the  nodes,  and  all
the  apparent  errors  as  to  longitude  and  latitude)  are  in  each  revolution  of
the  body  P  as  the  square  of  the  time  of  the  revolution,  very  nearly.  Let
these  ratios  be  compounded  with  the  ratios  in  Cor.  14,  and  in  any  system
of  bodies  T,  P,  S,  where  P  revolves  about  T  very  near  to  it,  and  T  re
volves  about  S  at  a  great  distance,  the  angular  errors  of  the  body  P,  ob
served  from  the  centre  T,  will  be  in  each  revolution  of  the  body  P  as  the
square  of  the  periodical  time  of  the  body  P  directly,  and  the  square  of  the
periodical  time  of  the  body  T  inversely.  And  therefore  the  mean  motion
of  the  line  of  the  apsides  will  be  in  a  given  ratio  to  the  mean  motion  of
the  nodes  ;  and  both  those  motions  will  be  as  the  periodical  time  of  the
body  P  directly,  and  the  square  of  the  periodical  time  of  the  body  T  in
versely.  The  increase  or  diminution  of  the  eccentricity  and  inclination  of
the  orbit  PAB  makes  no  sensible  variation  in  the  motions  of  the  apsides*
and  nodes,  unless  that  inc/case  or  diminution  be  very  great  indeed.
COR.  17.  Sines  the  line  LM  becomes  sometimes  greater  and  sometimes
less  than  the  radius  PT,  let  the  mean  quantity  of  the  force  LM  be  expressed E   C
sa— - -•::-.•.•::::::;
by  that  radius  PT  ;  and  then  that  mean  force  will  be  to  the  mean  force
SK  or  SN  (which  may  be  also  expressed  by  ST)  as  the  length  PT  to  the
length  ST.  But  the  mean  force  SN  or  ST,  by  which  the  body  T  is  re
tained  in  the  orbit  it  describes  about  S,  is  to  the  force  with  which  the  body  P
is  retained  in  its  orbit  about  T  in  a  ratio  compounded  of  the  ratio  of  the
radius  ST  to  the  radius  PT,  and  the  duplicate  ratio  of  the  periodical  time
of  the  body  P  about  T  to  the  periodical  time  of  the  body  T  about  S.  And,
ex  cequo,  the  mean  force  LM  is  to  the  force  by  which  the  body  P  is  retain
ed  in  its  orbit  about  T  (or  by  which  the  same  body  P  might  revolve  at  the
distance  PT  in  the  same  periodical  time  about  any  immovable  point  T)  in
the  same  duplicate  ratio  of  the  periodical  times.  The  periodical  times
therefore  being  given,  together  with  the  distance  PT,  the  mean  force  LM
is  also  given  ;  and  that  force  being  given,  there  is  given  also  the  force  MN,
very  nearly,  by  the  analogy  of  the  lines  PT  and  MN.
212   THE    MATHEMATICAL    PRINCIPLES   [BoOK    I
Con.  IS.  By  tlie  same  laws  by  which  the  body  P  revolves  about  the
body  T,  let  us  suppose  many  fluid  bodies  to  move  round  T  at  equal  dis
tances  from  it ;  and  to  be  so  numerous,  that  they  may  all  become  contiguous
to  each  other,  so  as  to  form  a  fluid  annul  us,  or  ring,  of  a  round  figure,  and
concentrical  to  the  body  T;  and  the  several  parts  of  this  annulus,  perform
ing  their  motions  by  the  same  law  as  the  body  P,  will  draw  nearer  to  the
body  T,  and  move  swifter  in  the  conjunction  and  opposition  of  themselves
and  the  body  S,  than  in  the  quadratures.  And  the  nodes  of  this  annulus,
or  its  intersections  with  the  plane  of  the  orbit  of  the  body  S  or  T,  will  rest
at  the  syzygies  ;  but  out  of  the  syzygies  they  will  be  carried  backward,  or
in.  antecedentia  ;  with  the  greatest  swiftness  in  the  quadratures,  and  more
slowly  in  other  places.  The  inclination  of  this  annulus  also  will  vary,  and
its  axis  will  oscillate  each  revolution,  and  when  the  revolution  is  completed
will  return  to  its  former  situation,  except  only  that  it  will  be  carried  round
a  little  by  the  precession  of  the  nodes.
COR.  19.  Suppose  now  the  spherical  body  T,  consisting  of  some  matter
not  fluid,  to  be  enlarged,  and  to  extend  its  'If  on  every  side  as  far  as  that
annulus,  and  that  a  channel  were  cut  all  round  its  circumference  contain
ing  water  j  and  that  this  sphere  revolves  uniformly  about  its  own  axis  in
the  same  periodical  time.  This  water  being  accelerated  and  retarded  by
turns  (as  in  the  last  Corollary),  will  be  swifter  at  the  syzygies,  and  slower
at  the  quadratures,  than  the  surface  of  the  globe,  and  so  will  ebb  and  flow  in
its  channel  after  the  manner  of  the  sea.  If  the  attraction  of  the  body  S  were
taken  away,  the  water  would  acquire  no  motion  of  flux  and  reflux  by  revolv-
.ng  round  the  quiescent  centre  of  the  globe.  The  case  is  the  same  of  a  globe
moving  uniformly  forwards  in  a  right  line,  and  in  the  mean  time  revolving
about  its  centre  (by  Cor.  5  of  the  Laws  of  Motion),  and  of  a  globe  uni
formly  attracted  from  its  rectilinear  course  (by  Cor.  6,  of  the  same  Laws).
But  let  the  body  S  come  to  act  upon  it,  and  by  its  unequable  attraction  the
A\ater  will  receive  this  new  motion  ;  for  there  will  be  a  stronger  attraction
upon  that  part  of  the  water  that  is  nearest  to  the  body,  and  a  weaker  upon
that  part  which  is  more  remote.  And  the  force  LM  will  attract  the  water
downwards  at  the  quadratures,  and  depress  it  as  far  as  the  syzygies  ;  and  the
force  KL  will  attract  it  upwards  in  the  syzygies,  and  withhold  its  descent,
and  make  it  rise  as  far  as  the  quadratures  ;  except  only  in  so  far  as  the
motion  of  flux  and  reflux  may  be  directed  by  the  channel  of  the  water,  and
be  a  little  retarded  by  friction.
COR.  20.  If,  now,  the  annulus  becomes  hard,  and  the  globe  is  diminished,
the  motion  of  flux  and  reflux  will  cease  ;  but  the  oscillating  motion  of  the
inclination  and  the  praecession  of  the  nodes  will  remain.  Let  the  globe
have  the  same  axis  with  the  annulus,  and  perform  its  revolutions  in  the
same  times,  and  at  its  surface  touch  the  annulus  within,  and  adhere  to  it;
then  the  globe  partaking  of  the  motion  of  the  annulus,  this  whole  compares
SEC.    XI.   OF    NATURAL    PHILOSOPHY.   213
will  oscillate,  and  the  nodes  will  go  backward,  for  the  globe,  as  \ve  shall
shew  presently,  is  perfectly  indifferent  to  the  receiving  of  all  impressions.
The  greatest  angle  of  the  inclination  of  the  annulus  single  is  when  the
nodes  are  in  the  syzygies.  Thence  in  the  progress  of  the  nodes  to  the
quadratures,  it  endeavours  to  diminish  its  inclination,  and  by  that  endea
vour  impresses  a  motion  upon  the  whole  globe.  The  globe  retains  this
motion  impressed,  till  the  annulus  by  a  contrary  endeavour  destroys  that
motion,  and  impresses  a  new  motion  in  a  contrary  direction.  And  by  this
means  the  greatest  motion  of  the  decreasing  inclination  happens  when  the
nodes  are  in  the  quadratures;  and  the  least  angle  of  inclination  in  the  octants
B
after  the  quadratures  ;  and,  again,  the  greatest  motion  of  roclination  happens
when  the  nodes  are  in  the  syzygies  ;  and  the  greatest  angle  of  reclination  in
the  octants  following.  And  the  case  is  the  same  of  a  globe  without  this  an
nulus,  if  it  be  a  little  higher  or  a  little  denser  in  the  equatorial  than  in  the
polar  regions  :  for  the  excess  of  that  matter  in  the  regions  near  the  equator
supplies  the  place  of  the  annulus.  And  though  we  should  suppose  the  cen
tripetal  force  of  this  globe  to  be  any  how  increased,  so  that  all  its  parts
were  to  tend  downwards,  as  the  parts  of  our  earth  gravitate  to  the  centre,
yet  the  phenomena  of  this  and  the  preceding  Corollary  would  scarce  be  al
tered  ;  except  that  the  places  of  the  greatest  and  least  height  of  the  water
will  be  different  :  for  the  water  is  now  no  longer  sustained  and  kept  in  its
orbit  by  its  centrifugal  force,  but  by  the  channel  in  which  it  flows.  And,
besides,  the  force  LM  attracts  the  water  downwards  most  in  the  quadra
tures,  and  the  force  KL  or  NM  —  LM  attracts  it  upwards  most  in  the
syzygies.  And  these  forces  conjoined  cease  to  attract  the  water  downwards,
and  begin  to  attract  it  upwards  in  the  octants  before  the  syzygies  ;  and
cease  to  attract  the  water  upwards,  and  begin  to  attract  the  water  down
wards  in  the  octants  after  the  syzygies.  And  thence  the  greatest  height  of
the  water  may  happen  about  the  octants  after  the  syzygies  ;  and  the  least
height  about  the  octants  after  the  quadratures  ;  excepting  only  so  far  as  the
motion  of  ascent  or  descent  impressed  by  these  forces  may  by  the  vis  insita
of  the  water  continue  a  little  longer,  or  be  stopped  a  little  sooner  by  impe
diments  in  its  channel.
COR.  21.  For  the  same  reason  that  redundant  matter  in  the  equatorial
regions  of  a  globe  causes  the  nodes  to  go  backwards,  and  therefore  by  the
increase  of  that  matter  that  retrogradation  is  increased,  by  the  diminution
is  diminished,  and  by  the  removal  quite  ceases  :  it  follows,  that,  if  more  than
214   THE    MATHEMATICAL    PRINCIPLES   [BOOK    I
that  redundant  matter  be  taken  away,  that  is,  if  the  globe  be  either  more
depressed,  or  of  a  more  rare  consistence  near  the  equator  than  near  the
poles,  there  will  arise  a  motion  of  the  nodes  in  consequentia.
COR.  22.  And  thence  from  the  motion  of  the  nodes  is  known  the  consti
tution  of  the  globe.  That  is,  if  the  globe  retains  unalterably  the  same  poles,
and  the  motion  (of  the  nodes)  be  in.  antecedetitia,  there  is  a  redundance  oi
the  matter  near  the  equator;  but  if  in  conseqnentia,  a  deficiency.  Sup
pose  a  uniform  and  exactly  spherical  globe  to  be  first  at  rest  in  a  free  space  :
then  by  some  impulse  made  obliquely  upon  its  superficies  to  be  driven  from
its  place,  and  to  receive  a  motion  partly  circular  and  partly  right  forward.
Because  this  globe  is  perfectly  indifferent  to  all  the  axes  that  pass  through
its  centre,  nor  has  a  greater  propensity  to  one  axis  or  to  one  situation  oi
the  axis  than  to  any  other,  it  is  manifest  that  by  its  own  force  it  will  never
change  its  axis,  or  the  inclination  of  it.  Let  now  this  globe  be  impelled
obliquely  by  a  new  impulse  in  the  same  part  of  its  superficies  as  before  .
and  since  the  effect  of  an  impulse  is  not  at  all  changed  by  its  coming  sooner
or  later,  it  is  manifest  that  these  two  impulses,  successively  impressed,  will
produce  the  same  motion  as  if  they  were  impressed  at  the  same  time :  that
is,  the  same  motion  as  if  the  globe  had  been  impelled  by  a  simple  force
compounded  of  them  both  (by  Cor.  2,  of  the  Laws),  that  is,  a  simple  motion
about  an  axis  of  a  given  inclination.  And  the  case  is  the  same  if  the  sec
ond  impulse  were  made  upon  any  other  place  of  the  equator  of  the  first
motion  ;  and  also  if  the  first  impulse  were  made  upon  any  place  in  the
equator  of  the  motion  which  would  be  generated  by  the  second  impulse
alone;  and  therefore,  also,  when  both  impulses  are  made  in  any  places
whatsoever  ;  for  these  impulses  will  generate  the  same  circular  motion  as
if  they  were  impressed  together,  and  at  once,  in  the  place  of  the  intersec
tions  of  the  equators  of  those  motions,  which  would  be  generated  by  each
of  them  separately.  Therefore,  a  homogeneous  and  perfect  globe  will  not
retain  several  distinct  motions,  but  will  unite  all  those  that  are  impressed
on  it,  and  reduce  them  into  one;  revolving, as  far  as  in  it  lies,  always  with
a  simple  and  uniform  motion  about  one  single  given  axis,  with  an  inclina
tion  perpetually  invariable.  And  the  inclination  of  the  axis,  or  the  velocity
of  the  rotation,  will  not  be  changed  by  centripetal  force.  For  if  the  globe
be  supposed  to  be  divided  into  two  hemispheres,  by  any  plane  whatsoever
passing  through  its  own  centre,  and  the  centre  to  which  the  force  is  direct
ed,  that  force  will  always  urge  each  hemisphere  equally  ;  and  therefore  will
not  incline  the  globe  any  way  as  to  its  motion  round  its  own  axis.  But
let  there  be  added  any  where  between  the  pole  and  the  equator  a  heap  oi
new  matter  like  a  mountain,  and  this,  by  its  perpetual  endeavour  to  recede
from  the  centre  of  its  motion,  will  disturb  the  motion  of  the  globe,  and
cause  its  poles  to  wander  about  its  superficies,  describing  circles  about
themselves  and  their  opposite  points.  Neither  can  this  enormous  evagatior
XL]   OF    NATURAL    PHILOSOPHY.   2 In
of  the  poles  be  corrected,  unless  by  placing  that  mountain  ei  '.  er  in  one  ol
the  poles;  in  which  case,  by  Cor.  21,  the  nodes  of  the  equator  will  go  for
wards  ;  or  in  the  equatorial  regions,  in  which  case,  by  Cor.  20,  the  nodes
will  go  backwards:  or,  lastly,  by  adding  on  the  other  side  of  the  axis  anew
quantity  of  matter,  by  which  the  mountain  may  be  balanced  in  its  motion;
and  then  the  nodes  will  either  go  forwards  or  backwards,  as  the  mountain
and  this  newly  added  matter  happen  to  be  nearer  to  the  pole  or  to  the
equator.  PROPOSITION  LXV1I.     THEOREM  XXVII.
The  same  laics  of  attraction  being'  supposed,  I  say,  that  the  exterior  body
S  does,  by  radii  dra.cn  to  the  point  O,  the  common  centre  of  gravity
of  the  interior  bodies  P  and  T,  describe  round  that  centre  areas  more
proportional  to  the  times,  and  an  orbit  more  approaching  to  the  form
of  an  ellipsis  having  its  focus  in  that  cen  > •.-.  than,  it  can  describe
round  the  innermost  and  greatest  body  T  by  ra  Hi  drawn  to  that
body.
For  the  attractions  of  the  body  S  towards  T  and
P  compose  its  absolute  attraction,  which  is  more
directed  towards  O,  the  common  centre  of  gravity  S(i
of  the  bodies  T  and  P,  than  it  is  to   the  «.  reatest
body  T  ;  and  which  is  more  in  a  reciprocal  propor
tion  to  the  square  of  the  distance  SO,  than  it  is  to  the  square  of  the  distance
ST  :  as  will  easily  appear  by  a  little  consideration.
PROPOSITION  LXVIII.    THEOREM  XXVIII.
The  same  laws  of  attraction  supposed,  I  say,  that  the  exterior  body  S
will,  by  radii  drawn  to  O,  the  common  centre  of  gravity  of  the  interior
bodies  P   and    T,    describe    round  that    centre    areas  more  propor
tional  to  the  times,  and  an  orbit  more  approaching  to  the  form  of  an
ellipsis  having  its  focus  in  that  centre,  if  the  innermost  and  greatest
body  be  agitated  by  these  attractions  as  well  as  the  rest,  than  it  would
do  if  that  body  were  either  at  rest  as  not  attracted,  or  were  much  tnore
or  much  less  attracted,  or  much  more  or  much  less  agitated.
This  may  be  demonstrated  after  the  same  manner  as  Prop.  LXVI,  but
by  a  more  prolix  reasoning,  which  I  therefore  pass  over.     It  will  be  suf
ficient  to  consider  it  after  this  manner.     From  the  demonstration  of  the
last  Proposition  it  is  plain,  that  the  centre,  towards  which  the  body  S  is
urged  by  the  two  forces  conjunctly,  is  very  near  to  the  common  centre  of
gravity  of  those  two  other  bodies.     If  this  centre  were  to  coincide  with  that
common  centre,  and  moreover  the  common  centre  of  gravity  of  all  the  three
bodies  were  at  rest,  the  body  S  on  one  side,  and  the  common   centre  of
gravity  of  the  other  two  bodies  on  the  other  side,  would  describe  true  ellip*
216   THE    MATHEMATICAL    PRINCIPLES  -   [BOOK    1
ses  about  that  quiescent  common  centre.  This  appears  from  Cor.

---

its  quantity  in  the  mean  distance  of  the  sun  from  the  earth.  But
it  is  increased  and  diminished  in  the  reciprocal  triplicate  proportion  of
the  sun's  distance,  and  therefore  is  nearly  3'  34"  when  that  distance  is
greatest^  and  3'  56"  when  least.  But  when  the  moon's  apogee  is  without
the  octants,  it  becomes  less,  and  is  to  its  greatest  quantity  as  the  sine  of
double  the  distance  of  the  moon's  apogee  from  the  nearest  syzygy  or  quad
rature  to  the  radius.
By  the  same  theory  of  gravity,  the  action  of  the  sun  upon  the  moon  is
something  greater  when  the  line  of  the  moon's  nodes  passes  through  the
sun  than  when  it  is  at  right  angles  with  the  line  which  joins  the  sun  and
the  earth  ;  and  hence  arises  another  equation  of  the  moon's  mean  motion,
which  I  shall  call  the  second  semi-annual  ;  and  this  is  greatest  when  the
nodes  are  in  the  octants  of  the  sun,  and  vanishes  when  they  are  in  the
syzygies  or  quadratures  ;  and  in  other  positions  of  the  nodes  is  propor
tional  to  the  sine  of  double  the  distance  of  either  node  from  the  nearest
syzygy  or  quadrature.  And  it  is  added  to  the  mean  motion  of  the  moon,
if  the  sun  is  in  antecedentia,  to  the  node  which  is  nearest  to  him,  and
subducted  if  in  consequential  and  in  the  octants,  where  it  is  of  the
greatest  magnitude,  it  arises  to  47"  in  the  mean  distance  of  the  sun  from
the  earth,  as  I  find  from  the  theory  of  gravity.  In  other  distances  of  the
sun,  this  equation,  greatest  in  the  octants  of  the  nodes,  is  reciprocally  as
the  cube  of  the  sun's  distance  from  the  earth  ;  and  therefore  in  the  sun's
perigee  it  comes  to  about  49",  and  in  its  apogee  to  about  45".
By  the  same  theory  of  gravity,  the  moon's  apogee  goes  forward  at  the
greatest  rate  when  it  is  either  in  conjunction  with  or  in  opposition  to  the
sun,  but  in  its  quadratures  with  the  sun  it  goes  backward  ;  and  the  ec
centricity  comes,  in  the  former  case,  to  its  greatest  quantity  ;  in  the  latter
to  its  least,  by  Cor.  7,  8,  and  9,  Prop.  LXVI,  Book  1.  And  those  ine
qualities,  by  the  Corollaries  we  have  named,  are  very  great,  and  generate
the  principal  which  I  call  the  semi-annual  equation  of  the  apogee  ;  and
this  semi-annual  equation  in  its  greatest  quantity  comes  to  about  12°  18',
as  nearly  as  I  could  collect  from  the  phenomena.  Our  countryman,
HorroXj  was  the  first  who  advanced  the  theory  of  the  moon's  moving  in
an  ellipsis  about  the  earth  placed  in  its  lower  focus.  Dr.  Halley  improved
the  notion,  by  putting  the  centre  of  the  ellipsis  in  an  epicycle  whose  cen-
BOOK  III.]   OF    NATURAL    PHILOSOPHY.   447
tre  is  uniformly  revolved  about  the  earth  ;  and  from  the  motion  in  this
epicycle  the  mentioned  inequalities  in  the  progress  and  regress  of  the  apo
gee,  and  in  the  quantity  of  eccentricity,  do  arise.  Suppose  the  mean  dis
tance  of  the  moon  from  the  earth  to  be  divided  into  100000  parts,  and
let  T  represent  the  earth,  and  TC  the  moon's  mean  eccentricity  of  5505
such  parts.  Produce  TC  to  B,  so  as  CB  may  be  the  sine  of  the  greatest
semi-annual  equation  12°  18'  to  the  radius  TC;  and  the  circle  BOA  de
scribed  about  the  centre  C,  with  the
(  interval  CB,  will  be  the  epicycle
spoken  of,  in  which  the  centre  of  the
moon's  orbit  is  placed,  and  revolved
according  to  the  order  of  the  letters
BDA.  Set  off  the  angle  BCD  equal
to  twice  the  annual  argument,  or
twice  the  distance  of  the  sun's  true  place  from  the  place  of  the  moon's
apogee  once  equated,  and  CTD  will  be  the  semi-annual  equation  of  the
moon's  apogee,  and  TO  the  eccentricity  of  its  orbit,  tending  to  the  place
of  the  apogee  now  twice  equated.  But,  having  the  moon's  mean  motion,
the  place  of  its  apogee,  and  its  eccentricity,  as  well  as  the  longer  axis  of
its  orbit  200000,  from  these  data  the  true  place  of  the  moon  in  its  orbit,
together  with  its  distance  from  the  earth,  may  be  determined  by  the
methods  commonly  known.
In  the  perihelion  of  the  earth,  where  the  force  of  the  sun  is  greatest,
the  centre  of  the  moon's  orbit  moves  faster  about  the  centre  C  than  in  the
aphelion,  and  that  in  the  reciprocal  triplicate  proportion  of  the  sun's  dis
tance  from  the  earth.  But,  because  the  equation  of  the  sun's  centre  is
included  in  the  annual  argument,  the  centre  of  the  moon's  orbit  moves
faster  in  its  epicycle  BDA,  in  the  reciprocal  duplicate  proportion  of  the
sun's  distance  from  the  earth.  Therefore,  that  it  may  move  yet  faster  in
the  reciprocal  simple  proportion  of  the  distance,  suppose  that  from  D,  the
centre  of  the  orbit,  a  right  line  DE  is  drawn,  tending  towards  the  moon's
apogee  once  equated,  that  is,  parallel  to  TC  ;  and  set  off  the  angle  EDF
equal  to  the  excess  of  the  aforesaid  annual  argument  above  the  distance
of  the  moon's  apogee  from  the  sun's  perigee  in  conseqiientia  ;  or;  which
comes  to  the  same  thing,  take  the  angle  CDF  equal  to  the  compleiuent  of
the  sun's  true  anomaly  to  360°  ;  and  let  DF  be  to  DC  as  twice  the  eccen
tricity  of  the  orbis  ma  gnus  to  the  sun's  mean  distance  from  the  earth.
and  the  sun's  mean  diurnal  m:tion  from  the  moon's  apogee  to  the  sun's
mean  diurnal  motion  from  its  own  apogee  conjunctly,  that  is,  as  33f  to
1000,  and  52'  27"  16'"  to  59'  8"  10'"  conjunctly,  or  as  3  to  100;  and
imagine  the  centre  of  the  moon's  orbit  placed  in  the  point  F  to  be  revolved
in  an  epicycle  whose  centre  is  D,  and  radius  DF,  while  the  point  D  moves
in  the  circumference  of  the  circle  DABD  :  for  by  this  means  the  centre  of
THE    MATHEMATICAL    PRINCIPLES   [BOOK    III
the  moon's  orbit  comes  to  describe  a  certain  curve  line  about  the  centre  C
with  a  velocity  which  will  be  almost  reciprocally  as  the  cube  of  the  sun's
distance  from  the  earth,  as  it  ought  to  be.
The  calculus  of  this  motion  is  difficult,  but  may  be  rendered  more  easy
by  the  following  approximation.  Assuming,  as  above,  the  moon's  mean
distance  from  the  earth  of  100000  parts,  and  the  eccentricity  TC  of  5505
Buch  parts,  the-line  CB  or  CD  will  be  found  1172f,  and  DF  35}  of  those
parts :  and  this  line  DF  at  the  distance  TC  subtends  the  angle  at  the  earth,
which  the  removal  of  the  centre  of  the  orbit  from  the  place  D  to  the  place
P  generates  in  the  motion  of  this  centre;  and  double  this  line  DF  in  a
parallel  position,  at  the  distance  of  the  upper  focus  of  the  moon's  orbit  from
the  earth,  subtends  at  the  earth  the  same  angle  as  DF  did  before,  which
that  removal  generates  in  the  motion  of  this  upper  focus ;  but  at  the  dis
tance  of  the  moon  from  the  earth  this  double  line  2DF  at  the  upper  focus,
in  a  parallel  position  to  the  first  line  DF,  subtends  an  angle  at  the  moon,
which  the  said  removal  generates  in  the  motion  of  the  moon,  which  angle
may  be  therefore  called  the  second  equation  of  the  moon's  centre  ;  and  this
equation,  in  the  mean  distance  of  the  moon  from  the  earth,  is  nearly  as  the
sine  of  the  angle  which  that  line  DF  contains  with  the  line  drawn  from
the  point  F  to  the  moon,  and  when  in  its  greatest  quantity  amounts  to  2'
25".  But  the  angle  which  the  line  DF  contains  with  the  line  drawn  from
the  point  F  to  the  moon  is  found  either  by  subtracting  the  angle  EDF
from  the  mean  anomaly  of  the  moon,  or  by  adding  the  distance  of  the  moon
from  the  sun  to  the  distance  of  the  moon's  apogee  from  the  apogee  of  the
sun  ;  and  as  the  radius  to  the  sine  of  the  angle  thus  found,  so  is  2'  25"  to
the  second  equation  of  the  centre:  to  be  added,  if  the  forementioned  sum
be  less  than  a  semi-circle  ;  to  be  subducted,  if  greater.  And  from  the  moon's
place  in  its  orbit  thus  corrected,  its  longitude  may  be  found  in  the  syzygies
of  the  luminaries.
The  atmosphere  of  the  earth  to  the  height  of  35  or  40  miles  refracts  the
sun's  light.  This  refraction  ^scatters  and  spreads  the  light  over  the  earth's
shadow  ;  and  the  dissipated^ light  near  the  limits  of  the  shadow  dilates  the
shadow.  Upon  which  account,  to  the  diameter  of  the  shadow,  as  it  cornea
out  by  the  parallax,  I  add  1  or  1^  minute  in  lunar  eclipses.
But  the  theory  of  the  moon  ought  to  be  examined  and  proved  from  the
phenomena,  first  in  the  syzygies,  then  in  the  quadratures,  and  last  of  all
in  the  octants:  and  whoever  pleases  to  undertake  the  work  will  find  it
not  amiss  to  assume  the  following  mean  motions  of  the  sun  and  moon  at
the  Royal  Observatory  of  Greenwich,  to  the  last  day  of  December  at  noon,
anno  1700,  O.S.  viz.  The  mean  motion  of  the  sun  Y5>  20°  43'  40",  and  of
its  apogee  s  7°  44'  30";  the  mean  motion  of  the  moon  ^  15°  21'  00";
of  its  apogee,  X  8°  20'  00";  and  of  its  ascending  node  Si  27°  24'  20";
and  the  difference  of  meridians  betwixt  the  Observatory  at  Greenwich  and
BOOK    III.]   OF    NATURAL    PHILOSOPHY.   449
the  Royal  Observatory  at  Paris,  Oh.  9'  20 ' :  but  the  mean  motion  >f  the
inoon  and  of  its  apogee  are  not  yet  obtained  with  sufficient  accuracy.
PROPOSITION  XXXVI.     PROBLEM  XVII.
To  find  the  force  of  the  sun  to  move  the  sea.
The  sun's  force  Ml,  or  PT  to  disturb  the  motions  of  the  moon,  was  (by
Prop.  XXV.)  in  the  moon's  quadratures,  to  the  force  of  gravity  with  us,  as
1  to  638092.6;  and  the  force  TM  —  LM  or  2PK  in  the  moon's  syzygies
is  double  that  quantity.  But,  descending  to  the  surface  of  the  earth,  these
forces  are  diminished  in  proportion  of  the  distances  from  the  centre  of  the
earth,  that  is,  in  the  proportion  of  60|  to  1  ;  and  therefore  the  former  force
on  the  earth's  surface  is  to  the  force  of  gravity  as  1  to  38604600  ;  and  by
this  force  the  sea  is  depressed  in  such  places  as  are  90  degrees  distant  from
the  sun.  But  by  the  other  force,  which  is  twice  as  great,  the  sea  is  raised
not  only  in  the  places  directly  under  the  sun,  but  in  those  also  which  are
directly  opposed  to  it ;  and  the  sum  of  these  forces  is  to  the  force  of  gravity
as  1  to  12868200.  And  because  the  same  force  excites  the  same  motion,
whether  it  depresses  the  waters  in  those  places  which  are  90  degrees  distant
from  the  sun,  or  raises  them  in  the  places  which  are  directly  under  and  di
rectly  opposed  to  the  sun,  the  aforesaid  sum  will  be  the  total  force  of  the
sun  to  disturb  the  sea,  and  will  have  the  same  effect  as  if  the  whole  was
employed  in  raising  the  sea  in  the  places  directly  under  and  directly  op
posed  to  the  sun,  and  did  not  act  at  all  in  the  places  which  are  90  degrees
removed  from  the  sun.
And  this  is  the  force  of  the  sun  to  disturb  the  sea  in  any  given  place,
where  the  sun  is  at  the  same  time  both  vertical,  and  in  its  mean  distance
from  the  earth.  In  other  positions  of  the  sun,  its  force  to  raise  the  sea  is
as  the  versel  sine  of  double  its  altitude  above  the  horizon  of  the  place  di
rectly,  and  the  cu.be  of  the  distance  from  the  earth  reciprocally.
COR.  Since  the  centrifugal  force  of  the  parts  of  the  earth,  arising  from
the  earth's  diurnal  motion,  which  is  to  the  force  of  gravity  as  1  to  289,
raises  the  waters  under  the  equator  to  a  height  exceeding  that  under  the
poles  by  85472  Paris  feet,  as  above,  in  Prop.  XIX.,  the  force  of  the  sun,
which  we  have  now  shewed  to  be  to  the  force  of  gravity  as  1  to  12868200,
and  therefore  is  to  that  centrifugal  force  as  289  to  12868200,  or  as  1  to
44527,  will  be  able  to  raise  the  waters  in  the  places  directly  under  and  di
rectly  opposed  to  the  sun  to  a  height  exceeding  that  in  the  places  which  arc
90  degrees  removed  from  the  sun  only  by  one  Paris  foot  and  113¥V  inches ;
for  this  measure  is  to  the  measure  of  85472  feet  as  1  to  44527.
PROPOSITION  XXXVII.     PROBLEM  XVIIL
To  find  the  force  of  the  moon  to  move  the  sea.
The  force  of  the  moon  to  move  the  sea  is  to  be  deduced  from  its  proper- 29
450   THE    MATHEMATICAL    PRINCIPLES   [BoOH    III
tion  to  the  force  of  the  sun,  and  this  proportion  is  to  he  collected  from  the
proportion  of  the  motions  of  the  sea,  which  are  the  effects  of  those  forces.
Before  the  mouth  of  the  river  Avon,  three  miles  below  Bristol,  the  height
of  the  ascent  of  the  water  in  the  vernal  and  autumnal  syzygies  of  the  lu
minaries  (by  the  observations  of  Samuel  Sturmy}  amounts  to  about  45
feet,  but  in  the  quadratures  to  25  only.  The  former  of  those  heights  ari
ses  from  the  sum  of  the  aforesaid  forces,  the  latter  from  their  difference.
If,  therefore,  S  and  L  are  supposed  to  represent  respectively  the  forces  of
the  sun  arid  moon  while  they  are  in  the  equator,  as  well  as  in  their  mean
distances  from  the  earth,  we  shall  have  L  +  S  to  L  —  S  as  45  to  25,  or  as
9  to  5.
At  Plymouth  (by  the  observations  of  Samuel  Colepress)  the  tide  in  its
mean  height  rises  to  about  16  feet,  and  in  the  spring  and  autumn  tlu-
height  thereof  in  the  syzygies  may  exceed  that  in  the  quadratures  by  more
than  7  or  8  feet.  Suppose  the  greatest  difference  of  those  heights  to  be  9
feet,  and  L  -f  S  will  be  to  L  —  S  as  20 £  to  ll|,  or  as  41  to  23;  a  pro
portion  that  agrees  well  enough  with  the  former.  But  because  of  the  great
tide  at  Bristol,  we  are  rather  to  depend  upon  the  observations  of  Sturmy  ;
and,  therefore,  till  we  procure  something  that  is  more  certain,  we  shall  use
the  proportion  of  9  to  5.
But  because  of  the  reciprocal  motions  of  the  waters,  the  greatest  tides  do
not  happen  at  the  times  of  the  syzygies  of  the  luminaries,  but,  as  we  have
said  before,  are  the  third  in  order  after  the  syzygies ;  or  (reckoning  from
the  syzygies)  follow  next  after  the  third  appulse  of  the  moon  to  the  me
ridian  of  the  place  after  the  syzygies ;  or  rather  (as  Sturmy  observes)  are
the  third  after  the  day  of  the  new  or  full  moon,  or  rather  nearly  after  the
twelfth  hour  from  the  new  or  full  moon,  and  therefore  fall  nearly  upon  the
forty-third  hour  after  the  new  or  full  of  the  moon.  But  in  this  port  they
fall  out  about  the  seventh  hour  after  the  appulse  of  the  moon  to  the  me
ridian  of  the  place ;  and  therefore  follow  next  after  the  appulse  of  the
moon  to  the  meridian,  when  the  moon  is  distant  from  the  sun,  or  from  op
position  with  the  sun  by  about  IS  or  19  degrees  in.  consequent-la.  So  the
summer  and  winter  seasons  come  not  to  their  height  in  the  solstices  them
selves,  but  when  the  sun  is  advanced  beyuni  the  solstices  by  about  a  tenth
part  of  its  whole  course,  that  is,  by  about  36  or  37  degrees.  In  like  man
ner,  the  greatest  tide  is  raised  after  the  appulse  of  the  moon  to  the  meridian
of  the  place,  when  the  moon  has  passed  by  the  sun,  or  the  opposition  thereof.
by  .about  a  tenth  part  of  the  whole  motion  from  one  greatest  tide  to  the
next  following  greatest  tide.  Suppose  that  distance  about  18^  degrees:
and  the  sun's  force  in  this  distance  of  the  moon  from  the  syzygies  and
quadratures  will  be  of  less  moment  to  augment  and  diminish  that  part  o1
the  motion  of  the  sea  which  proceeds  from  the  motion  of  the  moon  than  in
Ihe  syzygies  and  quadratures  themselves  in  the  proportion  of  the  radius  tu
BOOK  III.]   OF    NATURAL    PHILOSOPHY   451
the  co-sine  of  double  this  distance,  or  of  an  angle  of  37  degrees ;  that  is-  in
proportion  of  10000000  to  798)355;  and,  therefore,  in  the  preceding  an
alogy,  in  place  of  S  we  must  put  0,79863558.
But  farther  ;  the  force  of  tne  moon  in  the  quadratures  must  be  dimin
ished,  on  account  of  its  declination  from  the  equator  ;  for  the  moon  in
those  quadratures,  or  rather  in  18^  degrees  past  the  quadratures,  declines
from  the  equator  by  about  23°  13';  and  the  force  of  either  luminary  to
move  the  sea  is  diminished  as  it  declines  from  the  equator  nearly  in  the
duplicate  proportion  of  the  co-sine  of  the  declination  ;  and  therefore  the
force  of  the  moon  in  those  quadratures  is  only  0.85703271.  ;  whence  we
have  L+0,7986355S  to  0,8570327L  —  0,79863558  as  9  to  5.
Farther  yet ;  the  diameters  of  the  orbit  in  which  the  moon  should  move,
setting  aside  the  consideration  of  eccentricity,  are  one  to  the  other  as  69
to  70  ;  and  therefore  the  moon's  distance  from  the  earth  in  the  syzygies
is  to  its  distance  in  the  quadratures,  c&teris  paribus,  as  69  to  70 ;  and  its
distances,  when  18i  degrees  advanced  beyond  the  syzygies,  where  the  great
est  tide  was  excited,  and  when  18^  degrees  passed  by  the  quadratures,
where  the  least  tide  was  produced,  are  to  its  mean  distance  as  69,098747
and  69,£97345  to  69 1.  But  the  force  of  the  moon  to  move  the  sea  is  in
the  reciprocal  triplicate  proportion  of  its  distance  ;  and  therefore  its
forces,  in  the  greatest  and  least  of  those  distances,  are  to  its  force  in  its
mean  distance  ;is  0.9830427  and  1,017522  to  1.  From  whence  we  have
1,0175221,  x  0,79863558.  to  0,9830427  X  0,8570327L  —  0,79863558
as  9  to  5 ;  and  8  to  L  as  1  to  4,4815.  Wherefore  since  the  force  of  the
sun  is  to  the  force  of  gravity  as  1  to  12868200,  the  moon's  force  will  be
to  the  force  of  gravity  as  1  to  2871400.
COR.  1.  Since  the  waters  excited  by  the  sun's  force  rise  to  the  height  of
a  foot  and  ll^V  inches,  the  moon's  force  will  raise  the  same  to  the  height
of  8  feet  and  7/¥  inches  ;  and  the  joint  forces  of  botli  will  raise  the  same
to  the  height  of  10^  feet ;  and  when  the  moon  is  in  its  perigee  to  the
height  of  12  i  feet,  and  more,  especially  when  the  wind  sets  the  same  way
as  the  tide.  And  a  force  of  that  quantity  is  abundantly  sufficient  to  ex
cite  all  the  motions  of  the  sea,  and  agrees  well  with  the  proportion  of
those  motions;  for  in  such  seas  as  lie  free  and  open  from  east  to  west,  as-
iri  the  Pacific  sea.  and  in  those  tracts  of  the  Atlantic  and  Ethiopia  seas
which  lie  without  the  tropics,  the  waters  commonly  rise  to  6,  9,*  12,  cr  15
feet ;  but  in  the  Pacific  sea,  which  is  of  a  greater  depth,  as  well  as-  of  a
larger  extent,  the  tides  are  said  to  be  greater  than  in  the  Atlantic  andi
Ethiopic  seas  ;  for  to  have  a  full  tide  raised,  an  extent  of  sea  from  east1  to
west  is  required  of  no  less  than  90  degrees.  In  the  Ethiopic  sea,  the  waters-
rise  to  a  less  height  within  the  tropics  than  in  the  temperate  zones,  be
cause  of  the  narrowness  of  the  sea  between  Africa  and  the  southern  parts
of  America.  In  the  middle  of  the  open  sea  the  waters  cannot  rise  with*
J52   THE    MATHEMATICAL    PRINCIPLES   [BOOK    111,
out  falling  together,  and  at  the  same  time,  upon  both  the  eastern  and  west
ern  shores,  when,  notwithstanding,  in  our  narrow  seas,  they  ought  to  fall
on  those  shores  by  alternate  turns  ;  upon  which  account  there  is  com
monly  but  a  small  flood  and  ebb  in  such  islands  as  lie  far  distant  from
the  continent.  On  the  contrary,  in  some  ports,  where  to  fill  and  empty
the  bays  alternately  the  waters  are  with  great  violence  forced  in  and  out
through  shallow  channels,  the  flood  and  ebb  must  be  greater  than  ordinary  ;
as  at  Plymouth  and  Chepstow  Bridge  in  England,  at  the  mountains  of
St.  Michael,  and  the  town  of  Auranches,  in  Normandy,  and  at  Combaia
and  Pegu  in  the  East  Indies.  In  these  places  the  sea  is  hurried  in  and
qjit  with  such  violence,  as  sometimes  to  lay  the  shores  under  water,  some
times  to  leave  them  dry  for  many  miles.  Nor  is  this  force  of  the  influx
and  efflux  to  be  broke  till  it  has  raised  and  depressed  the  waters  to  30,  40,
or  50  feet  and  above.  And  a  like  account  is  to  be  given  of  long  and  shal
low  channels  or  straits,  such  as  the  Mugellrniic  straits,  and  those  chan
nels  which  environ  England.  The  tide  in  such  ports  and  straits,  by  the
violence  of  the  influx  and  efflux,  is  augmented  above  measure.  But  on
such  shores  as  lie  towards  the  deep  and  open  sea  with  a  steep  descent,
where  the  waters  may  freely  rise  and  fall  without  that  precipitation  of
influx  and  efflux,  the  proportion  of  the  tides  agrees  with  the  forces  of  the
sun  and  moon.
COR.  2.  Since  the  moon's  force  to  move  the  sea  is  to  the  force  of  gravity
as  1  to  2871400,  it  is  evident  that  this  force  is  far  less  than  to  appear
sensibly  in  statical  or  hydrostatical  experiments,  or  even  in  those  of  pen
dulums.  It  is  in  the  tides  only  that  this  force  shews  itself  by  any  sensi
ble  effect.
COR.  3.  Because  the  force  of  the  moon  to  move  the  sea  is  to  the  like
force  of  the  sun  as  4,4815  to  1,  and  those  forces  (by  Cor.  14,  Prop.  LXVI,
Book  1)  are  as  the  densities  of  the  bodies  of  the  sun  and  moon  and  the
cubes  of  their  apparent  diameters  conjunctly,  the  density  of  the  moon  will
be  to  the  density  of  the  sun  as  4,4815  to  1  directly,  and  the  cube  of  the
moon's  diameter  to  the  cube  of  the  sun's  diameter  inversely  ;  that  is  (see
ing  the  mean  apparent  diameters  of  the  moon  and  sun  are  31'  161",  and
32'  12"),  as  4891  to  1000.  But  the  density  of  the  sun  was  to  the  den
sity  of  the  earth  as  1000  to  4000;  and  therefore  the  density  of  the  moon
is  to  the  density  of  the  earth  as  4891  to  4000,  or  as  11  to  9.  Therefore
the  body  of  the  moon  is  more  dense  and  more  earthly  than  the  earth
itself.
COR.  4.  And  since  the  true  diameter  of  the  moon  (from  the  observations
of  astronomers)  is  to  the  true  diameter  of  the  earth  as  100  to  365,  the
mass  of  matter  in  the  moon  will  be  to  the  mass  of  matter  in  the  earth  as
1  to  39,788.
Cor.  5.  And  the  accelerative  gravity  on  the  surface  of  the  moon  will  be
30OK  HI.]   OF    NATURAL    PHILOSOPHY.   453
about  three  times  less  than  the  accelerative  gravity  on  the  surface  of  thr
earth.
COR.  6.  And  the  distance  of  the  moon's  centre  from  the  centre  of  the
earth  will  be  to  the  distance  of  the  moon's  centre  from  the  common  centre
of  gravity  of  the  earth  and  moon  as  40,783  to  39,788.
COR.  7.  And  the  mean  distance  of  the  centre  of  the  moon  from  the
centre  of  the  earth  will  be  (in  the  moon's  octants)  nearly  60f  of  the  great
est  semi-diameters  of  the  earth;  for  the  greatest  semi- diameter  of  the
earth  was  1 9658600  Paris  feet,  and  the  mean  distance  of  the  centres  of
the  earth  and  moon,  consisting  of  60|  such  semi-diameters,  is  equal  to
1187379440  feet.  And  this  distance  (by  the  preceding  Cor.)  is  to  the  dis
tance  of  the  moon's  centre  from  the  common  centre  of  gravity  of  the
earth  and  moon  as  40.788  to  39,788  :  which  latter  distance,  therefore,  is
1158268534  feet.  And  since  the  moon,  in  respect  of  the  fixed  stars,  per
forms  its  revolution  in  27d.  7h.  43f ',  the  versed  sine  of  that  angle  which
the  moon  in  a  minute  of  time  describes  is  12752341  to  the  radius
1000,000000,000000;  and  as  the  radius  is  to  this  versed  sine,  so  are
1158268534  feet  to  147706353  feet.  The  moon,  therefore,  falling  tow
ards  the  earth  by  that  force  which  retains  it  in  its  orbit,  would  in  one
minute  of  time  describe  147706353  feet  ;  and  if  we  augment  this  force
in  the  proportion  of  17Sf  £  to  l?7£-§,  we  shall  have  the  total  force  of
gravity  at  the  orbit  of  the  moon,  by  Cor.  Prop.  Ill ;  and  the  moon  falling
by  this  force,  in  one  minute  of  time  would  describe  14.8538067  feet.  And
at  the  60th  part  of  the  distance  of  the  moon  from  the  earth's  centre,  that
is,  at  the  distance  of  197896573  feet  from  the  centre  of  the  earth,  a  body
falling  by  its  weight,  would,  in  one  second  of  time,  likewise  describe
14,8538067  feet.  And,  therefore,  at  the  distance  of  19615800,  which
compose  one  mean  serni -diameter  of  the  earth,  a  heavy  body  would  de
scribe  in  falling  15,11175,  or  15  feet,  1  inch,  and  4^  lines,  in  the  same
time.  This  will  be  the  descent  of  bodies  in  the  latitude  of  45  degrees.
And  by  the  foregoing  table,  to  be  found  under  Prop.  XX,  the  descent  in
the  latitude  of  Paris  will  be  a  little  greater  by  an  excess  of  about  |  parts
of  a  line.  Therefore,  by  this  computation,  heavy  bodies  in  the  latitude  of
Paris  falling  in  vacno  will  describe  15  Paris  feet,  1  inch,  4|f  lines,  very
nearly,  in  one  second  of  time.  And  if  the  gravity  be  diminished  by  tak
ing  away  a  quantity  equal  to  the  centrifugal  force  arising  in  that  latitude
."rom  the  earth's  diurnal  motion,  heavy  bodies  falling  there  will  describe
in  one  second  of  time  15  feet,  1  inch,  and  l£  line.  And  with  this  velo
city  heavy  bodies  do  really  fall  in  the  latitude  of  Paris,  as  we  have  shewn
above  in  Prop.  IV  and  XIX.
COR.  8.  The  mean  distance  of  the  centres  of  the  earth  and  moon  in  the
syzygies  of  the  moon  is  equal  to  60  of  the  greatest  semi-diameters  of  the
earth,  subducting  only  about  one  30th  par1;  of  a  semi-  diameter  :  and  in  the
45.4   THE  MATHEMATICAL  PRINCIPLES   [BOOK  III,
moon's  quadratures  the  mean  distance  of  the  same  centres  is  60f  such  semi-
diameters  of  the  earth ;  for  these  two  distances  are  to  the  mean  distance  oi
the  moon  in  the  octants  as  69  and  70  to  69|,  by  Prop.  XXVIII.
COR.  9.  The  mean  distance  of  the  centres  of  the  earth  and  moon  in  the
syzygies  of  the  moon  is  60  mean  semi-diameters  of  the  earth,  and  a  10th
part  of  one  semi-diameter;  and  in  the  moon's  quadratures  the  mean  dis
tance  of  the  same  centres  is  61  mean  semi- diameters  of  the  earth,  subduct
ing  one  30th  part  of  one  semi-diameter.
COR.  10.  In  the  moon's  syzygies  its  mean  horizontal  parallax  in  the  lat
itudes  of  0.  30,  38,  45,  52,  60,  90  degrees  is  57'  20",  57'  16",  57'  14",  57
12",  57'  10",  57'  8",  57'  4",  respectively.
In  these  computations  I  do  not  consider  the  magnetic  attraction  of  the
earth,  whose  quantity  is  very  small  and  unknown  :  if  this  quantity  should
ever  be  found  out,  and  the  measures  of  degrees  upon  the  meridian,  the
lengths  of  isochronous  pendulums  in  different  parallels,  the  laws  of  the  mo
tions  of  the  sea,  and  the  moon's  parallax,  with  the  apparent  diameters  of
the  sun  and  moon,  should  be  more  exactly  determined  from  phenomena  :  wo
should  then  be  enabled  to  bring  this  calculation  to  a  greater  accuracy.
PROPOSITION  XXXVIII.     PROBLEM  XIX.
To  find  the  figure  of  the  moon's  body.
If  the  moon's  body  were  fluid  like  our  sea,  the  force  of  the  earth  to  raise
that  fluid  in  the  nearest  and  remotest  parts  would  be  to  the  force  of  the
moon  by  which  our  sea  is  raised  in  the  places  under  and  opposite  to  the
moon  as  the  accelerative  gravity  of  the  moon  towards  the  earth  to  the  ac-
celerative  gravity  of  the  earth  towards  the  moon,  and  the  diameter  of  the
moon  to  the  diameter  of  the  earth  conjunctly  ;  that  is,  as  39,788  to  1,  and
100  to  365  conjunctly,  or  as  1081  to  100.  Wherefore,  since  our  sea,  by
the  force  of  the  moon,  is  raised  to  Sf  feet,  the  lunar  fluid  would  be  raised
by  the  force  of  the  earth  to  93  feet ;  and  upon  this  account  the  figure  of
the  moon  would  be  a  spheroid,  whose  greatest  diameter  produced  would
pass  through  the  centre  of  the  earth,  and  exceed  the  diameters  perpendicu
lar  thereto  by  186  feet.  Such  a  figure,  therefore,  the  moon  affects,  and
must  have  put  on  from  the  beginning.  Q.E.I.
COR.  Hence  it  is  that  the  same  face  of  the  moon  always  respects  the
earth  ;  nor  can  the  body  of  the  moon  possibly  rest  in  any  other  position,
but  would  return  always  by  a  libratory  motion  to  this  situation  ;  but  those
librations,  however,  must  be  exceedingly  slow,  because  of  the  weakness  of
the  forces  which  excite  them  ;  so  that  the  face  of  the  moon,  which  should
be  always  obverted  to  the  earth,  may,  for  the  reason  assigned  in  Prop.  XVI  I.
be  turned  towards  the  other  focus  of  the  moon's  orbit,  without  being  im
mediately  drawn  back,  and  converted  again  towards  the  earth.
BOOK  III]  OF    NATURAL    PHILOSOPHY.
LEMMA  I.
If  APEp  represent  the  earth  uniformly  dense,  'marked  with  the  centre  C,
the  poles  P,  p,  and  the  equator  AE;  and  if  about  the  centre  C,  with
the  radius  CP,  we  suppose  the  sphere  Pape  to  be  described,  and  Q  li  to
denote  tJie  plane  on  which  a  right  line,  drawn  from  the  centre  of  the
sun  to  the  centre  of  the  earth,  i/isists  at  right  angles ;  and  further
suppose  that  the  several  particles  of  the  whole  exterior  earth  PapAP^pE,
without  the  height  of  the  said  sphere,  endeavour  to  recede  towards  t/iis
side  and  that  side  from  the  plane  Q.R,  every  particle  by  a  force  pro
portional  to  its  distance  from  that  plane  ;  I  say,  in  the  first  place,  that
the  whole  force  and  efficacy  of  all  the  particles  that  are  situate  in  AE,
the  circle  of  the  equator,  and  disposed  uniformly  without  the  globe,
encompassing  the  same  after  the  manner  of  a  ring,  to  iclieel  the  earth
about  its  centre,  is  to  the  whole  force  and  efficacy  of  as  many  particles
in  that  point  A  of  the  equator  which  is  at  the  greatest  distance  from
the  plane  Q,R,  to  wheel  the  earth  about  its  centre  with  a  like  circular
•motion,  as  I  to  2.  And  that  circular  'motion  will  be  performed  about
an  axis  lying  in  the  common  section  of  the  equator  and  the  plane  Q,R.
For  let  there  be  described  from  the  centre  K,  with  the  diameter  IL,  the
semi-circle  INL.  Suppose  the  semi-circumference  INL  to  be  divided
into  innumerable  equal  parts,  and  from  the  several  parts  N  to  the  diameter
Q
I   K      ML,
IL  let  fall  the  sines  NM.  Then  the  sums  of  the  squares  of  all  the  sinea
NM  will  be  equal  to  the  sums  of  the  squares  of  the  sines  KM,  and  both
sums  together  will  be  equal  to  the  sums  of  t

---

e  beginning  is  to  the  part  lost  of  that
motion.
LEMMA  I.
Quantities  proportional  to  their  differences  are  continually  proportional.
Let  A  be  to  A  —  B  as  B  to  B  —  C  and  C  to  C  —  D,  (fee.,  and,  by  con
version,  A  will  be  to  B  as  B  to  C  and  C  to  D,  &c.     Q.E.D.
PROPOSITION  II.    THEOREM  II.
If  a  body  is  resisted  in  the  ratio  of  its  velocity,  and  moves,  by  its  vis  in-
sita  only,  through  a  similar  medium,  and  the  times  be  taken  equal,
the  velocities  in  the  beginning  of  each  of  the  times  are  in  a  geometri
cal  progression,  and  the  spaces  described  in  each  of  the  times  are  as
the  velocities.
CASE  1.  Let  the  time  be  divided  into  equal  particles ;  and  if  at  the  very
beginning  of  each  particle  we  suppose  the  resistance  to  act  with  one  single
impulse  which  is  as  the  velocity,  the  decrement  of  the  velocity  in  each  of
THE    MATHEMATICAL    PRINCIPLES   [BOOK    II.
the  particles  of  time  will  be  as  the  same  velocity.  Therefore  the  veloci
ties  are  proportional  to  their  differences,  and  therefore  (by  Lem.  1,  Book
II)  continually  proportional.  Therefore  if  out  of  an  equal  number  of  par
ticles  there  be  compounded  any  equal  portions  of  time,  the  velocities  at  the
beginning  of  those  times  will  be  as  terms  in  a  continued  progression,  which
are  taken  by  intervals,  omitting  every  where  an  equal  number  of  interme
diate  terms.  But  the  ratios  of  these  terms  are  compounded  of  the  equaj
ratios  of  the  intermediate  terms  equally  repeated,  and  therefore  are  equal
Therefore  the  velocities,  being  proportional  to  those  terms,  are  in  geomet
rical  progression.  Let  those  equal  particles  of  time  be  diminished,  and
their  number  increased  in  infinitum,  so  that  the  impulse  of  resistance  may
become  continual  ;  and  the  velocities  at  the  beginnings  of  equal  times,  al
ways  continually  proportional,  will  be  also  in  this  case  continually  pro
portional.  Q.E.D.
CASE  2.  And,  by  division,  the  differences  of  the  velocities,  that  is,  the
parts  of  the  velocities  lost  in  each  of  the  times,  are  as  the  wholes  ;  but  the
spaces  described  in  each  of  the  times  are  as  the  lost  parts  of  the  velocities
(by  Prop.  1,  Book  I),  and  therefore  are  also  as  the  wholes.     Q.E.D.
TT   COROL.  Hence  if  to  the  rectangular  asymptotes  AC,  CH,
the  hyperbola  BG  is  described,  and  AB,  DG  be  drawn  per
pendicular  to  the  asymptote  AC,  and  both  the  velocity  of
.  the  body,  and  the  resistance  of  the  medium,  at  the  very  be
ginning  of  the  motion,  be  expressed  by  any  given  line  AC,
and,  after  some  time  is  elapsed,  by  the  indefinite  line  DC  ;  the  time  may
be  expressed  by  the  area  ABGD,  and  the  space  described  in  that  time  by
the  line  AD.  For  if  that  area,  by  the  motion  of  the  point  D,  be  uniform
ly  increased  in  the  same  manner  as  the  time,  the  right  line  DC  will  de
crease  in  a  geometrical  ratio  in  the  same  manner  as  the  velocity  ;  and  the
parts  of  the  right  line  AC,  described  in  equal  times,  will  decrease  in  the
same  ratio.
PROPOSITION  III.     PROBLEM  I.
To  define  the  motion  of  a  body  which,  in  a  similar  medium,  ascends  or
descends  in  a  right  line,  and  is  resisted  in  the  ratio  of  its  velocity,  and
acted  upon  by  an  uniform  force  of  gravity.
The  body  ascending,  let  the  gravity  be  expound
ed  by  any  given  rectangle  BACH  ;  and  the  resist
ance  of  the  medium,  at  the  beginning  of  the  ascent,
by  the  rectangle  BADE,  taken  on  the  contrary  side
Jfl  e  B^l  |  L-  of  the  right  line  AB.  Through  the  point  B,  with
the  rectangular  asymptotes  AC,  CH,  describe  an
hyperbola,  cutting  the  perpendiculars  DE,  de,  ID
SEC.    I.j   OF    NATURAL    PHILOSOPHY.   253
G,  g  ;  and  the  body  ascending  will  in  the  time  DGgd  describe  the  space
EG«-e;  in  the  time  DGBA,  the  space  of  the  whole  ascent  EGB  ;  in  the
time  ABK1,  the  space  of  descent  BFK  ;  and  in  the  time  IKki  the  space  of
descent  KFfk;  and  the  velocities  of  the  bodies  (proportional  to  the  re
sistance  of  the  medium)  in  these  periods  of  time  will  be  ABED,  ABed,  O,
ABFI,  AB/z  respectively  ;  and  the  greatest  velocity  which  the  body  can
acquire  by  descending  will  be  BACH.
For  let  the  rectangle  BACH  be  resolved  into  in
numerable  rectangles  AA',  K/,  Lm,  M//,  *fea,  which
shall  be  as  the  increments  of  the  velocities  produced
in  so  many  equal  times;  then  will  0,  AAr,  AL  Am,  An,
ifec.,  be  as  the  whole  velocities,  and  therefore  (by  suppo
sition)  as  the  resistances  of  the  medium  in  the  be-
ginning  of  each  of  the  equal  times.     Make  AC  to  AJLLB
AK,  or  ABHC  to  AB/vK,  as  the  force  of  gravity  to  the  resistance  in  the
beginning  of  the  second  time  ;  then  from  the  force  of  gravity  subduct  the
resistances,  and  ABHC,  K/vHC,  L/HC,  MwHC,  (fee.,  will  be  as  the  abso
lute  forces  with  which  the  body  is  acted  upon  in  the  beginning  of  each  of
the  times,  and  therefore  (by  Law  I)  as  the  increments  of  the  velocities,  that
is,  as  the  rectangles  AA-,  K/,  Lm,  M//,  (fee.,  and  therefore  (by  Lem.  1,  Book
II)  in  a  geometrical  progression.  Therefore,  if  the  right  lines  K£,  LI
M/TO,  N//,  &c.,  are  produced  so  as  to  meet  the  hyperbola  in  q,  r,  s,  t,  (fee..
the  areas  AB^K,  K</rL,  LrsM,  MsJN,  (fee.,  will  be  equal,  and  there
fore  analogous  to  the  equal  times  and  equal  gravitating  forces.  But  the
area  AB^K  (by  Corol.  3,  Lem.  VII  and  VIII,  Book  I)  is  to  the  area  Bkq
as  K^  to  \kq,  or  AC  to  |AK,  that  is,  as  the  force  of  gravity  to  the  resist
ance  in  the  middle  of  the  first  time.  And  by  the  like  reasoning,  the  areas
<?KLr,  rLMs,  sMN/,  (fee.,  are  to  the  areas  qklr,  rims,  smnt,  (fee.,  as  the
gravitating  forces  to  the  resistances  in  the  middle  of  the  second,  third,  fourth
time,  and  so  on.  Therefore  since  the  equal  areas  BAKq,  </KLr,  rLMs,
sMN/,  (fee.,  are  analogous  to  the  gravitating  forces,  the  areas  Bkq,  qklr,
rims,  smut,  (fee.,  will  be  analogous  to  the  resistances  in  the  middle  of
each  of  the  times,  that  is  (by  supposition),  to  the  velocities,  and  so  to  the
spaces  described.  Take  the  sums  of  the  analogous  quantities,  and  the  areas
Bkq,  Elr,  Ems,  But,  (fee.,  will  be  analogous  to  the  whole  spaces  described  ;
and  also  the  areas  AB<?K,  ABrL,  ABsM,  AB^N,  (fee.,  to  the  times.  There
fore  the  body,  in  descending,  will  in  any  time  ABrL  describe  the  space  Blr,
and  in  the  time  Lr^N  the  space  rlnt.  Q,.E.D.  And  the  like  demonstra
tion  holds  in  ascending  motion.
COROL.  1.  Therefore  the  greatest  velocity  that  the  body  can  acquire  by
falling  is  to  the  velocity  acquired  in  any  given  time  as  the  £iven  force  ol
gravity  which  perpetually  acts  upon  it  to  the  resisting  force  which  opposes
it  at  the  end  of  that  time.
854  THE    MATHEMATICAL    PRINCIPLES  [BOOK    IL
COROL.  2.  But  the  time  being  augmented  in  an  arithmetical  progression,
the  sum  of  that  greatest  velocity  and  the  velocity  in  the  ascent,  and  also
their  difference  in  the  descent,  decreases  in  a  geometrical  progression.
COROL.  3.  Also  the  differences  of  the  spaces,  which  are  described  in  equal
differences  of  the  times,  decrease  in  the  same  geometrical  progression.
COROL.  4.  The  space  described  by  the  body  is  the  difference  of  two
spaces,  whereof  one  is  as  the  time  taken  from  the  beginning  of  the  descent,
and  the  other  as  the  velocity;  which  [spaces]  also  at  the  beginning  of  the
descent  are  equal  among  themselves.
PROPOSITION  IV.     PROBLEM  II.
Supposing  the  force  of  gravity  in  any  similar  medium  to  be  uniform,
and  to  tend  perpendicularly  to  the  plane  of  the  horizon  ;  to  define  the
motion  of  a  projectile  therein,  which  suffers  resistance  proportional  to
its  velocity.  Let  the  projectile  go  from  any  place  D  in
the  direction  of  any  right  line  DP,  and  let
its  velocity  at  the  beginning  of  the  motion
be  expounded  by  the  length  DP.  From  the
point  P  let  fall  the  perpendicular  PC  on  the
horizontal  line  DC,  and  cut  DC  in  A,  so
that  DA  may  be  to  AC  as  the  resistance
of  the  medium  arising  from  the  motion  up
wards  at  the  beginning  to  the  force  of  grav
ity;  or  (which  comes  to  the  same)  so  that
t  ie  rectangle  under  DA  and  DP  may  be  to
that  under  AC  and  CP  as  the  whole  resist
ance  at  the  beginning  of  the  motion  to  the
force  of  gravity.  With  the  asymptotes
DC,  CP  describe  any  hyperbola  GTBS  cut
ting  the  perpendiculars  DG,  AB  in  G  and
B  ;  complete  the  parallelogram  DGKC,  and
let  its  side  GK  cut  AB  in  Q,.  Take
N  in  the  same  ratio  to  QB  as  DC  is  in  to  CP  ;  and  from  any  point  R  of  the
right  line  DC  erect  RT  perpendicular  to  it,  meeting  the  hy]  erbola'in  T,
and  the  right  lines  EH,  GK,  DP  in  I,  t,  and  V  ;  in  that  perpendicular
take  Vr  equal  to  —  ~-  ,  or  which  is  the  same  thing,  take  Rr  equal  to
(""""PIT?
—  ^T—  ;  and  the  projectile  in  the  time  DRTG  will  arrive  at  the  point  r
describing  the  curve  line  DraF,  the  locus  of  the  point  r  ;  thence  it  will
come  to  its  greatest  height  a  in   the  perpendicular  AB  j  and  afterwards
SEC.    1.J   »   OF    NATURAL    PHILOSOPHY.   255
ever  approach  to  the  asymptote  PC.  And  its  velocity  in  any  pjint  r  will
be  as  the  tangent  rL  to  the  curve.  Q.E.I.
For  N  is  to  Q,B  as  DC  to  CP  or  DR  to  RV,  and  therefore  RV  is  equal  to
PR  X  QB      ,'  -•..".    "v       v        DRXQB-/GT
—  ^r  -  ,  and  R/'  (that  is,  RV  —  Vr,  or  -     --  ^  ---  )  is  equal  to
DR  X  Ap  —  RDGT
--   ~  ---   .     JNow  let  the   time   be   expounded    by    the   area
RDGT  and  (by  Laws,  Cor.  2),  distinguish  the  motion  of  the  body  into
two  others,  one  of  ascent,  the  other  lateral.  And  since  the  resistance  is  as
the  motion,  let  that  also  be  distinguished  into  two  parts  proportional  and
contrary  to  the  parts  of  the  motion  :  and  therefore  the  length  described  by
the  lateral  motion  will  be  (by  Prop.  II,  Book  II)  as  the  line  DR,  and  the
height  (by  Prop.  Ill,  Book  II)  as  the  area  DR  X  AB  —  RDGT,  that  is,
as  the  line  Rr.  But  in  the  very  beginning  of  the  motion  the  area  RDGT
is  equal  to  the  rectangle  DR  X  AQ,  and  therefore  that  line  Rr  (or
DRx  AB  —
that  is,  as  CP  to  DC  ;  and  therefore  as  the  motion  upwards  to  the  motion
lengthwise  at  the  beginning.  Since,  therefore,  Rr  is  always  as  the  height,
and  DR  always  as  the  length,  and  Rr  is  to  DR  at  the  beginning  as  the
height  to  the  length,  it  follows,  that  Rr  is  always  to  DR  as  the  height  to
the  length  ;  and  therefore  that  the  body  will  move  in  the  line  DraF.  which
is  the  locus  of  the  point  r.  QJE.D.  DR  X  AB       RDGT
COR.  1.  Therefore  Rr  is  equal  to  --  ^  ------  ^  -  .  and  therefore
if  RT  be  produced  to  X  so  that  RX  may  be  equal  to  --  ^  --  ;  that  is,
if  the  parallelogram  ACPY  be  completed,  and  DY  cutting  CP  in  Z  be
drawn,  and  RT  be  produced  till  it  meets  DY  in  X  ;  Xr  will  be  equal  to
RDGT
—  ^  —  ,  and  therefore  proportional  to  the  time.
COR.  2.  Whence  if  innumerable  lines  CR,  or,  which  is  the  same,  innu
merable  lines  ZX,  be  taken  in  a  geometrical  progression,  there  will  be  as
many  lines  Xr  in  an  arithmetical  progression.  And  hence  the  curve  DraF
is  easily  delineated  by  the  table  of  logarithms.
COR.  3.  If  a  parabola  be  constructed  to  the  vertex  D,  and  the  diameter
DG  produced  downwards,  and  its  latus  rectum  is  to  2  DP  as  the  whole
resistance  at  the  beginning  of  the  notion  to  the  gravitating  force,  the  ve
locity  with  which  the  body  ought  *o  go  from  the  place  D,  in  the  direction
of  the  right  line  DP,  so  as  in  an  uniform  resisting  medium  to  describe  the
curve  DraF,  will  be  the  same  as  that  with  which  it  ought  to  go  from  the
same  place  D  in  the  direction  of  the  same  right  line  DP,  so  as  to  describe
256  THE    MATHEMATICAL    PRINCIPLES      ~
[BOOK  II
I    a  parabola  in  a  non-resisting  medium.     For
the  latus  rectum  of  this  parabola,  at  the  very
DV2
beginning  of  the  motion,  is  -y-',  andVris
tGT      DR  x  T*
-~JT-  or    £^T —  .     But  a  right  line,  which,
if  drawn,  would  touch  the  hyperbola  GTS  in
K  G,  is  parallel  to  DK,  and  therefore  T*  is
CKX  DR
c  QBx  DC
^    ,  and  N  is  —  ~pp    •  Ahd  there-
DC
DR2  X  CK  x  CP
fore  Vr  is  equal  to       2DC2  X  QlT~;  *^at  *S  (Because  D^  an<*  ^)C,  DV
DV2  x  CK  ~x  OP
and  DP  are  proportionals),  to  — ^T5    Fcrr —  J  an<*  tne  ^atus  reeturn
DV2 -  comes  out  -
2DP2  X  QB
are  proportional),
CK  X  CP
2DP2  X  DA
AC  X  CP
CP  X  AC ;  that  is,  as  the  resistance  to  the  gravity.
(because
and  therefore  is  to  2DP  as  DP  X  DA  to
Q.E.D.
COR.  4.  Hence  if  a  body  be  projected  from
any  place  D  with  a  given  velocity,  in  the
direction  of  a  right  line  DP  given  by  posi
tion,  and  the  resistance  of  the  medium,  at
the  beginning  of  the  motion,  be  given,  the
curve  DraF,  which  that  body  will  describe,
may  be  found.  For  the  velocity  being
given,  the  latus  rectum  of  the  parabola  is
given,  as  is  well  known.  And  taking  2DP
to  that  latus  rectum,  as  the  force  of  gravity
to  the  resisting  force,  DP  is  also  given.
Then  cutting  DC  in  A,  so  that  GP  X  AC
may  be  to  DP  X  DA  in  the  same  ratio  of
the  gravity  to  the  resistance,  the  point  A
will  be  given.  And  hence  the  curve  DraF
is  also  given.
COR.  5.  And,  on  the  contrary,  if  the
curve  DraF  be  given,  there  will  be  given
x>th  the  velocity  of  the  body  and  the  resistance  of  the  medium  in  each  of
the  places  r.  For  the  ratio  of  CP  X  AC  to  DP  X  DA  being  given,  there
is  given  both  the  resistance  of  the  medium  at  the  beginning  of  the  motion
and  the  latus  rectum  of  the  parabola ;  and  thence  the  velocity  at  the  be
ginning  of  the  motion  is  given  also.  Then  from  the  length  of  the  tangent
SEC.  I.]   OF    NATURAL    PHILOSOPHY.   257
L  there  is  given  both  the  velocity  proportional  to  it,  and  the  resistance
proportional  to  the  velocity  in  any  place  r.
COR.  6.  But  since  the  length  2DP  is  to  the  latus  rectum  of  the  para
bola  as  the  gravity  to  the  resistance  in  D ;  and,  from  the  velocity  aug
mented,  the  resistance  is  'ti  gmented  in  the  same  ratio,  but  the  latus  rectum
of  the  parabola  is  augmented  in  the  duplicate  of  that  ratio,  it  is  plain  thot
the  length  2DP  is  augmented  in  that  simple  ratio  only  ;  and  is  therefore
always  proportional  to  the  velocity  ;  nor  will  it  be  augmented  or  dimin
ished  by  the  change  of  the  angle  CDP,  unless  the  velocity  be  also  changed.
COR.  7.  Hence  appears  the  method  of  deter
mining  the  curve  DraF  nearly  from  the  phe-
nomena,  and  thence  collecting  the  resistance  and
velocity  with  which  the  body  is  projected.  Let
two  similar  and  equal  bodies  be  projected  with
the  same  velocity,  from  the  place  D,  in  differ
ent  angles  CDP,  CDp  ;  and  let  the  places  F,
f.  where  they  fall  upon  the  horizontal  plane
DC,  be  known.  Then  taking  any  length  for  D   */  F
DP  or  Dp  suppose  the  resistance  in  D  to  be  to
the  suavity  in  any  ratio  whatsoever,  and  let  that
ratio  be  expounded  by  any  length  SM.     Then,         ,    _
by  computation,  from  that  assumed  length  DP,   ^x
find  the  lengths  DF,  D/;  and  from  the  ratio F/
-p^,  found  by  calculation,  subduct  the  same  ratio  as  found  by  experiment  ;
and  let  the  cKfference  be  expounded  by  the  perpendicular  MN.  Repeat  the
same  a  second  and  a  third  time,  by  assuming  always  a  new  ratio  SM  of  the
resistance  to  the  gravity,  and  collecting  a  new  difference  MN.  Draw  the
affirmative  differences  on  one  side  of  the  right  line  SM,  and  the  negative
on  the  other  side ;  and  through  the  points  N,  N,  N,  draw  a  regular  curve
NNN.  cutting  the  right  line  SMMM  in  X,  and  SX  will  be  the  true  ratio
of  the  resistance  to  the  gravity,  which  was  to  be  found.  From  this  ratio
the  length  DF  is  to  be  collected  by  calculation  ;  and  a  length,  which  is  to
the  assumed  length  DP  as  the  length  DF  known  by  experiment  to  the
length  DF  just  now  found,  will  be  the  true  length  DP.  This  being  known,
you  will  have  both  the  curve  line  DraF  which  the  body  describes,  and  also
the  velocity  and  resistance  of  the  body  in  each  place.
SCHOLIUM.
But,  yet,  that  the  resistance  of  bodies  is  in  the  ratio  of  the  velocity,  is  more
a  mathematical  hypothesis  than  a  physical  one.  In  mediums  void  of  all  te
nacity,  the  resistances  made  to  bodies  are  in  the  duplicate  ratio  of  the  ve
locities.  For  by  the  action  of  a  swifter  body,  a  greater  motion  in  propor-
17
THE    MATHEMATICAL    PRINCIPLES   [BoOK    IL
tion  to  a  greater  velocity  is  communicated  to  the  same  quantity  of  the
medium  in  a  less  time  ;  and  in  an  equal  time,  by  reason  of  a  greater  quan
tity  of  the  disturbed  medium,  a  motion  is  communicated  in  the  duplicate
ratio  greater  ;  and  the  resistance  (by  Law  II  and  III)  is  as  the  motion
communicated.  Let  us,  therefore,  see  what  motions  arise  from  this  law  of
resistance.
SECTION  II.
'If  the  motion  of  bodies  that  are  resisted  in  tfie  duplicate  ratio  of  their velocities.
PROPOSITION  V.     THEOREM  III.
Ff  a  body  is  resisted  in  the  duplicate  ratio  of  its  velocity,  and  moves  by
its  innate  force  only  through  a  similar  medium;  and  the  times  be
taken  in  a  geometrical  progression,  proceeding  from  less  to  greater
terms  :  I  say,  that  the  velocities  at  the  beginning  of  each  of  the  times
are  in  the  same  geometrical  progression  inversely  ;  and  that  the  spaces
are  equal,  which  are  described  in  each  of  the  times.
For  since  the  resistance  of  the  medium  is  proportional  to  the  square  of
the  velocity,  and  the  decrement  of  the  velocity  is  proportional  to  the  resist
ance  :  if  the  time  be  divided  into  innumerable  equal  particles,  the  squares  of
the  velocities  at  the  beginning  of  each  of  the  times  will  be  proportional  to
the  differences  of  the  same  velocities.     Let  those  particles  of  time  be  AK,
KL,  LM,  &c.,  taken  in  the  right  line  CD;  and
erect  the  perpendiculars  AB,  Kk,  L/,  Mm,  &c.,
meeting  the  hyperbola  BklmG,  described  with  the
centre  C,  and  the  rectangular  asymptotes  CD,  CH.
in  B,  kj  I,  m,  (fee. ;  then  AB  will  be  to  Kk  as  CK
to  CA,  and,  by  division,  AB  —  Kk  to  Kk  as  AK
C       ARIMT   to  ^A>  an(1  alternate^  AB —  ^C  to  AK  as  Kk
to  CA  ;  and  therefore  as  AB  X  Kk  to  AB  X  CA.
Therefore  since  AK  and  AB  X  CA  are  given,*  AB  —  Kk  will  be  as  AB
X  Kk  ;  and,  lastly,  when  AB  and  KA*  coincide,  as  AB2.  And,  by  the  like
reasoning,  KAr-U,  J  J-M/??,  (fee.,  will  be  as  Kk2.  LI2,  (fee.  Therefore  the
squares  of  the  lines  AB,  KA",  L/,  Mm,  (fee.,  are  as  their  differences  ;  and,
therefore,  since  the  squares  of  the  velocities  were  shewn  above  to  be  as  their
differences,  the  progression  of  both  will  be  alike.  This  being  demonstrated
it  follows  also  that  the  areas  described  by  these  lines  are  in  a  like  progres
sion  with  the  spaces  described  by  these  velocities.  Therefore  if  the  velo
city  at  the  beginning  of  the  first  time  AK  be  expounded  by  the  line  AB,
SEC.    II.]   OF    NATURAL    PHILOSOPHY.   25CJ
and  the  velocity  at  the  beginning  of  the  second  time  KL  by  the  line  K&
and  the  length  described  in  the  hrst  time  by  the  area  AKA*B,  all  the  fol
lowing  velocities  will  be  expounded  by  the  following  lines  \J.  Mm,  .fee.
and  the  lengths  described,  by  the  areas  K/,  I  mi.  &c.  And,  by  compo
sition,  if  the  whole  time  be  expounded  by  AM,  the  sum  of  its  parts,  the
whole  length  described  will  be  expounded  by  AM/ftB  the  sum  of  its  parts.
Now  conceive  the  time  AM  to  be  divided  into  the  parts  AK,  KL,  LM,  (fee
so  that  CA,  CK,  CL,  CM,  (fee.  may  be  in  a  geometrical  progression  ;  and
those  parts  will  be  in  the  same  progression,  and  the  velocities  AB,  K/r,
L/,  Mm,  (fee.,  will  be  in  the  same  progression  inversely,  and  the  spaces  de
scribed  Ak,  K/,  Lw,  (fee.,  will  be  equal.  Q,.E.D.
COR.  1.  Hence  it  appears,  that  if  the  time  be  expounded  by  any  part
AD  of  the  asymptote,  and  the  velocity  in  the  beginning  of  the  time  by  the
ordinate  AB,  the  velocity  at  the  end  of  the  time  will  be  expounded  by  the
ordinate  DG  ;  and  the  whole  space  described  by  the  adjacent  hyperbolic
area  ABGD  ;  and  the  space  which  any  body  can  describe  in  the  same  time
AD,  with  the  first  velocity  AB,  in  a  non-resisting  medium,  by  the  rectan
gle  AB  X  AD.
COR  2.  Hence  the  space  described  in  a  resisting  medium  is  given,  by
taking  it  to  the  space  described  with  the  uniform  velocity  AB  in  a  non-
resisting  medium,  as  the  hyperbolic  area  ABGD  to  the  rectangle  AB  X  AD.
COR.  3.  The  resistance  of  the  medium  is  also  given,  by  making  it  equal,
in  the  very  beginning  of  the  motion,  to  an  uniform  centripetal  force,  which
could  generate,  in  a  body  falling  through  a  non-resisting  medium,  the  ve
locity  AB  in  the  time  AC.  For  if  BT  be  drawn  touching  the  hyperbola
in  B.  and  meeting  the  asymptote  in  T,  the  right  line  AT  will  be  equal  to
AC,  and  will  express  the  time  in  which  the  first  resistance,  uniformly  con
tinned,  may  take  away  the  whole  velocity  AB
COR.  4.  And  thence  is  also  given  the  proportion  of  this  resistance  to  the
force  of  gravity,  or  ay  other  given  centripetal  force.
COR.  5.  And,  vice  versa,  if  there  is  given  the  proportion  of  the  resist-
;  nee  to  any  given  centripetal  force,  the  time  AC  is  also  given,  in  which  c
centripetal  force  equal  to  the  resistance  may  generate  any  velocity  as  AB  ;
and  thence  is  given  the  point  B.  through  which  the  hyperbola,  having  CH
CD  for  its  asymptotes,  is  to  be  described  :  as  also  the  space  ABGD,  which  a
body,  by  beginning  its  motion  with  that  velocity  AB,  can  describe  in  any
time  AD.  in  a  similar  resisting  medium.
PROPOSITION  VI.     THEOREM  lVrc
Homogeneous  and  equal  spherical  bodies,  opposed  hy  resistances  that  are
in  the  duplicate  ratio  of  the  velocities,  and  moving  on  by  their  innate
force  only,  will,  in  times  which  are  reciprocally  as  the  velocities  at  thr.
260   THE    MATHEMATICAL    PRINCIPLES   |BOOK    II,
v
beg-in  fiing,  describe  equal  spaces,  and  lose  parts  of  their  velocities  pro
portional  to  the  wholes.  To  the  rectangular  asymptotes  CD,  CH  de
scribe  any  hyperbola  B6Ee,  cutting  the  perpen
diculars  AB,  rib,   DE,  de  in  B,  b,  E,  e;  let  the
initial  velocities  be  expounded  by  the  perpendicu
lars  AB,  DE,  and  the  times  by  the  lines  Aa,  Drf.
Therefore  as  Aa  is  to  l)d,  so  (by  the  hypothesis)
.  is  DE  to  AB,  and  so  (from  the  nature  of  the  hy-
C     "^   perbola)  is  CA  to  CD  ;  and,  by  composition,  so  is
Crt  to  Cd.  Therefore  the  areas  ABba,  DEerf,  that  is,  the  spaces  described,
are  equal  among  themselves,  and  the  first  velocities  AB,  DE  are  propor
tional  to  the  last  ab,  de ;  and  therefore,  by  division,  proportional  to  the
parts  of  the  velocities  lost,  AB  —  ab,  DE  —  de.  Q.E.D.
PROPOSITION  VII.     THEOREM  V.
If  spherical  bodies  are  resisted  in  the  duplicate  ratio  of  their  velocities,
in  times  which  are  as  the  first  motions  directly,  and  the  first  resist
ances  inversely,  they  will  lose  parts  of  their  motions  proportional  to  the
wholes,  and  will  describe  spaces  proportional  to  those  times  and  the
first  velocities  conjunct  It/.
For  the  parts  of  the  motions  lost  are  as  the  resistances  and  times  con
junctly.  Therefore,  that  those  parts  may  be  proportional  to  the  wholes,
the  resistance  and  time  conjunctly  ought  to  be  as  the  motion.  Therefore  the
time  will  be  as  the  motion  directly  and  the  resistance  inversely.  Where
fore  the  particles  of  the  times  being  taken  in  that  ratio,  the  bodies  will
always  loso  parts  of  their  motions  proportional  to  the  wholes,  and  there
fore  will  retain  velocities  always  proportional  to  their  first  velocities.
And  because  of  the  given  ratio  of  the  velocities,  they  will  always  describe
spaces  which  are  as  the  first  velocities  and  the  times  conjunctly.  Q.E.D.
COR.  1.  Therefore  if  bodies  equally  swift  are  resisted  in  a  duplicate  ra
tio  of  their  diameters,  homogeneous  globes  moving  with  any  velocities
whatsoever,  by  describing  spaces  proportional  to  their  diameters,  will  lose
parts  of  their  motions  proportional  to  the  wholes.  For  the  motion  of  each
o-lobe  will  be  as  its  velocity  and  mass  conjunctly,  that  is,  as  the  velocity
and  the  cube  of  its  diameter  ;  the  resistance  (by  supposition)  will  be  as  the
square  of  the  diameter  and  the  square  of  the  velocity  conjunctly  ;  and  the
•time  (by  this  proposition)  is  in  the  former  ratio  directly,  and  in  the  latter
inversely,  that  is,  as  the  diameter  directly  and  the  velocity  inversely ;  and
therefore' the  space,  which  is  proportional  to  the  time  and  velocity  is  as
the  diameter.
COR.  2.  If  bodies  equally  swift  are  resisted  in  a  sesquiplicate  ratio  of
their  diameters,  homogeneous  globes,  moving  with  any  velocities  whatso-
SEC.    1L]   OF    NATURAL    PHILOSOPHY.   261
ever,  by  describing  spaces  that  are  in  a  sesquiplicate  ratio  of  the  diameters,
will  lose  parts  of  their  motions  proportional  to  the  wholes.
COR.  3.  And  universally,  if  equally  swift  bodies  are  resisted  in  the  ratio
of  any  power  of  the  diameters,  the  spaces,  in  which  homogeneous  globes,
moving  with  any  velocity  whatsoever,  will  lose  parts  of  their  motions  pro
portional  to  the  wholes,  will  be  as  the  cubes  of  the  diameters  applied  to
that  power.  Let  those  diameters  be  D  and  E  :  and  if  the  resistances,  where
the  velocities  are  supposed  equal,  are  as  T)n  and  E" ;  the  spaces  in  which
the  globes,  moving  with  any  velocities  whatsoever,  will  lose  parts  of  their
motions  proportional  to  the  wholes,  will  be  as  D3  —  n  and  E3  —  n.  And
therefore  homogeneous  globes,  in  describing  spaces  proportional  to  D 3  —  n
and  E3  —  n,  will  retain  their  velocities  in  the  same  ratio  to  one  another  as
at  the  beginning.
COR.  4.  Now  if  the  globes  are  not  homogeneous,  the  space  described  by
the  denser  globe  must  be  augmented  in  the  ratio  of  the  density.  For  the
motion,  with  an  equal  velocity,  is  greater  in  the  ratio  of  the  density,  and
the  time  (by  this  Prop.)  is  augmented  in  the  ratio  of  motion  directly,  and
the  space  described  in  the  ratio  of  the  time.
COR.  5.  And  if  the  globes  move  in  different  mediums,  the  space,  in  a
medium  which,  cccteris  paribus,  resists  the  most,  must  be  diminished  in  the
ratio  of  the  greater  resistance.  For  the  time  (by  this  Prop.)  will  be  di
minished  in  the  ratio  of  the  augmented  resistance,  and  the  space  in  the  ra
tio  of  the  time.
LEMMA  II.
The  moment  of  any  genitum  is  equal  to  the  moments  of  each  of  the  gen-
eratinrr  sides  drawn  into  the  indices  of  the  powers  of  those  sides,  and
into  their  co-efficients  continually.
I  call  any  quantity  a  genitum  which  is  not  made  by  addition  or  sub-
duction  of  divers  parts,  but  is  generated  or  produced  in  arithmetic  by  the
multiplication,  division,  or  extraction  of  the  root  of  any  terms  whatsoever  :
in  geometry  by  the  invention  of  contents  and  sides,  or  of  the  extremes  and
means  of  proportionals.  Quantities  of  this  kind  are  products,  quotients,
roots,  rectangles,  squares,  cubes,  square  and  cubic  sides,  and  the  like.
These  quantities  I  here  consider  as  variable  and  indetermined,  and  increas
ing  or  decreasing,  as  it  were,  by  a  perpetual  motion  or  flux ;  and  I  under
stand  their  momentaneous  increments  or  decrements  by  the  name  of  mo
ments  ;  so  that  the  increments  may  be  esteemed  as  added  or  affirmative
moments  ;  and  the  decrements  as  subducted  or  negative  ones.  But  take
care  not  to  look  upon  finite  particles  as  such.  Finite  particles  are  not
moments,  but  the  very  quantities  generated  by  the  moments.  We  are  to
conceive  them  as  the  just  nascent  principles  of  finite  magnitudes.  Nor  do
we  in  this  Lemma  regard  the  magnitude  of  the  moments,  but  their  firsf
262   THE    MATHEMATICAL    PRINCIPLES   [BoOK    11
proportion,  as  nascent.  It  will  be  the  same  thing,  if,  instead  of  moments,
we  use  either  the  velocities  of  the  increments  and  decrements  (which  may
also  be  called  the  motions,  mutations,  and  fluxions  of  quantities),  or  any
finite  quantities  proportional  to  those  velocities.  The  co-efficient  of  any
generating  side  is  the  quantity  which  arises  by  applying  the  genitum  to
ihat  side.
Wherefore  the  sense  of  the  Lemma  is,  that  if  the  moments  of  any  quan
tities  A,  B,  C,  &c.,  increasing  or  decreasing  by  a  perpetual  flux,  or  the
velocities  of  the  mutations  which  are  proportional  to  them,  be  called  a,  6,
r,  (fee.,  the  moment  or  mutation  of  the  generated  rectangle  AB  will  be  «B
-h  b A ;  the  moment  of  the  generated  content  ABC  will  be  aBC  -f  b AC  4
-1         -2.         .1
cAB;  and  the  moments  of  the  generated  powers  A2.  A3,  A4,  A2,  A2.  A3,
A*,  A  —  ',  A  —  2,  A—  *  will  be  2aA,  3a  A2,  4aA3,  |«A  —  *,  f«A* 11   3
i«  A —  s,  |/iA  —  3,  —  a  A  —  2,  —  2aA —  3,  —  £aA —  2  respectively;  and
in  general,  that  the  moment  of  any  power  A^,  will  be  ^  aAn-^.  Also,
that  the  moment  of  the  generated  quantity  A2B  will  be  2aAB  4-  bA~  ;  the
moment  of  the  generated  quantity  A 3B4C2  will  be  3«A2B4C2  +  4/>A3
A3
B3C2   4-2cA3B'C;
and  the  moment
of
the  generated
quantity
—    or
A  »B  —  2  will  be  3aA 2 B  —  2  —  2bA 3B  —  3 ;  and  so  on.  The  Lemma  is
thus  demonstrated.
CASE  1.  Any  rectangle,  as  AB,  augmented  by  a  perpetual  flux,  when,  as
yet,  there  wanted  of  the  sides  A  and  B  half  their  moments  \a  and  \b,  was
A  —  \a  into  B  —  \b,  or  AB  —  ±a  B  —  \b  A  +  \ab  ;  but  as  soon  as  the
sides  A  and  B  are  augmented  by  the  other  half  moments,  the  rectangle  be
comes  A  4-  4-a  into  B  4-  \b,  or  AB  -f  ^a  B  4-  \b  A  -f  \ab.  From  this
rectangle  subduct  the  former  rectangle,  and  there  will  remain  the  exces.?
aE  -f  bA

