National Insurance Co. Ltd.
 
Premises No. 18
-
0374, Plot no. CBD
-
81, 
 
N
ew Town, Kolkata 
-
 
700156
 
Page 
4
 
of 
25
 
National Parivar Mediclaim Plus Policy
 
UIN: 
NICHLIP25039V032425
 
 
2.39
 
 
Notification of Claim 
means the process of intimating a claim to the Company or TPA through any of the recognized modes 
of 
communication.
 
 
2.40
 
 
Out
-
Patient Treatment 
means treatment in which the insured person visits a clinic / hospital or associated facility like a 
consultation room for diagnosis and treatment based on the advise of a medical practitioner and the insured person i
s not 
admitted as a day care patient or in
-
patient.
 
 
2.41
 
 
Policy Period 
means period of one policy year/ two policy years/ three policy years as mentioned in the schedule for which 
the Policy is issued.
 
 
2.42
 
 
Policy Year
 
means a period of twelve months beginning f
rom the date of commencement of the policy period and ending on 
the last day of such twelve month period. For the purpose of subsequent years, policy year shall mean a period of twelve mont
hs 
commencing from the end of the previous policy year and lapsing 
on the last day of such twelve
-
month period, till the policy 
period, as mentioned in the schedule.
 
 
2.43
 
Preferred Provider Network (PPN) 
means a network of hospitals which have agreed to a cashless packaged pricing for listed 
procedures for the insured person.
 
The list is available on the website of the Company/TPA and subject to amendment from 
time to time. For the updated list please visit the website of the Company/TPA. Reimbursement of expenses incurred in PPN 
for the procedures (as listed under PPN package
) shall be subject to the rates applicable to PPN package pricing.
 
 
2.44
 
Pre
 
existing disease
 
means any condition, ailment, injury or disease
 
a)
 
That is/are diagnosed by a physician within 36 months prior to the effective
 
date of the Policy issued by the 
Company
 
or 
its reinstatement
,
 
or
 
b)
 
For which Medical Advice or treatment was recommended by, or received from,
 
a physician within 36 months prior 
to the effective date of the Policy
 
issued by the Company
 
or its
 
reinstatement.
 
 
2.45
 
Portability 
means a 
facility provided to the policyholders (including all members under family cover), to transfer the credits 
gained for, Pre
-
Existing Diseases and Specific Waiting Periods from one insurer to another insurer.
 
 
2.46
 
 
Psychiatrist 
means a medical practitioner possessing a post
-
graduate degree or diploma in psychiatry awarded by an university 
recognised by the University Grants Commission established under the University Grants Commission Act, 1956, or awarded 
or recognised by the Na
tional Board of Examinations and included in the First Schedule to the Indian Medical Council Act, 
1956, or recognised by the Medical Council of India, constituted under the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956, and includes, in
 
relation to any State, any medi
cal officer who having regard to his knowledge and experience in psychiatry, has been declared 
by the Government of that State to be a psychiatrist.
 
 
2.47
 
 
Qualified Nurse 
means a person who holds a valid registration from the Nursing Council of India or the Nu
rsing Council of 
any state in India.
 
 
2.48
 
 
Reasonable and Customary Charges 
means the charges for services or supplies, which are the standard charges for the 
specific provider and consistent with the prevailing charges in the geographical area for identical o
r similar services, taking into 
account the nature of the disease/ injury involved.
 
 
2.49
 
 
Room Rent
 
means the amount charged by a Hospital towards Room and boarding expenses and shall include the associated 
charges.
 
 
2.50
 
 
Schedule 
means a document forming part of 
the Policy, containing details including name of the insured person, age, relation 
of the insured person, sum insured, premium paid and the policy period.
 
 
2.51
 
 
Surgery or Surgical Procedure 
means manual and / or operative procedure (s) required for treatment 
of a disease or injury, 
correction of deformities and defects, diagnosis and cure of diseases, relief of suffering or prolongation of life, performed
 
in a 
hospital or day care centre by a medical practitioner.
 
 
2.52
 
 
Third Party Administrator (TPA) 
means any en
tity, licenced under the IRDA (Third Party Administrators 
-
 
Health Services) 
Regulations, 2001 by the Authority, and is engaged, for a fee by the Company for the purpose of providing health services.
 
 
2.53
 
Unproven/ Experimental Treatment 
means treatment, including drug therapy, which is not based on established medical 
practice in India, is experimental or unproven.
 
 
2.54
 
 
Waiting Period 
means a period from the inception of this Policy during which specified dis
eases/treatment is not covered. On 
completion of the period, diseases/treatment shall be covered provided the Policy has been continuously renewed without any 
break. 
 
 
 
 
 
 